Not a great day for the Tigers: Faulkner said.
12 October 2015
VIDEO
Tasmania allrounder James Faulkner speaks about Tasmania's shortcomings against a star-studded NSW team and how the side can improve
Latest Videos
Kanpur ODI sets scene for riveting series
13 October 2015
Imran Tahir congratulates Rohit Sharma on his 150 // Getty Images
Our voices
The thrilling first ODI between India and South Africa has raised a number of talking points for the five-match series
About the Writer: Suneer Chowdhary
India's number three slot, Ashwin's injury, the twin-centuries from AB de Villiers and Rohit Sharma and an excellent finish with the ball from Imran Tahir and Kagiso Rabada are key issues heading into Wednesday’s second one-day international in Indore.
Rahane to continue at three
To see star batsman Virat Kohli pushed down the batting order in the first ODI came as a surprise to many, despite India skipper MS Dhoni flagging pre-game that Ajinkya Rahane needed to bat in the top three if he were to make the playing XI.
Kohli has been a regular at first-drop for the past few years and in that time has blossomed into one of the world's best at that number, averaging more than 50.
Quick single: South Africa win ODI thriller over India
While Dhoni could argue Kohli's average at four is higher (60 plus), batting the team’s best batsman higher in the order could have been a more rational choice for Sunday’s game, given it was a pitch where the older ball was always going to be more difficult to get away.
Rahane made 60 off 80 but was unable to find the kick India needed from him, while Kohli – who scored 11 off 18 - looked out of sorts in the short time he was there against the softer ball.
However, Dhoni has indicated Ajinkya Rahane will remain at No.3 for Wednesday’s second ODI.
"The reason Rahane is batting at three is because if you look at our batting line-up with him at three, and Virat at four and me and Suresh Raina at five and six, followed by Stuart Binny, when you are chasing, it looks like a very good, settled batting line-up, where you have power and at the same time you have people who have experience to chase down big totals," Dhoni said.
"That was the reason we have said that Rahane should bat up the order. If he's playing he should bat in the top three, otherwise (Ambati) Rayudu is somebody who will have to bat at five or six or seven,"
It looks like Kohli will need to quickly adjust to his new number for the remainder of the five-match series.
Missing the Ashwin impact
Ravichandran Ashwin's form has been crucial for India in recent times and the Indian off-spinner was expected to carry his side's bowling hopes in these ODIs as well, particularly given his knack of removing South Africa’s biggest threat in AB de Villiers.
What India did not plan on, however, was losing their spinner to a side injury .
The injury had a major impact on Sunday’s match, with Ashwin leaving the field at a time when de Villiers was just getting his eye in and was on 15 from 27. The South African went on to get his century from 73 balls.
Veteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh has now been drafted in to India's ODI squad ahead of the second match in Indore, leaving Dhoni to re-think his plans for the star-studded Proteas’ batting line-up.
Harbhajan was a regular in the Indian team across all the formats before he was dropped in 2011. He made a comeback to ODI cricket earlier this year in a three-match series against Zimbabwe in an understrength Indian team where he picked up four wickets at 27.5 in the series.
India also have Amit Mishra and Axar Patel as spin options in the squad, with Mishra also playing in the first ODI. 
The impact of the big hitters
When it comes to damaging one-day batsmen, de Villiers and Rohit Sharma are two of the best of their trade.
Both scored sizzling centuries that belied the slow nature of the pitch on Sunday, but interestingly, both their innings were efforts in contrast too.
The South African captain confirmed about his batting what most already know – that he is the world's top ODI batsmen - but what was refreshing to see was the difference in his approach from the past 12 months or so.
Assessing the pitch quickly and grasping the changed rules which allowed more leeway for the bowlers during the death overs, de Villiers was content to play himself in and made just 21 from his first 33 deliveries before hitting his first boundary - a swatted six over the leg-side off Suresh Raina.
His strike-rate steadily grew until he threw caution to the wind in a progressively aggressive fashion over the final 10 overs of the South African innings.
His first 50 came off 54 balls, the latter one needed just 19. As a result, South Africa went for 5-250 in 47 overs to 5-303 in 50.
Sharma batted for a longer time and scored 150, but unlike de Villiers he went after the bowling from the word go.
It took him 48 balls to score his first fifty, 50 to get to his second and even when he finally opened his shoulders, he needed a further 35 deliveries to get to 150.
His role was to bat through the innings and it was a goal he came close to before falling in the 47th over.
"When you are chasing 300, you have to keep taking risks and Rohit did that brilliantly in this game," Dhoni said.
If this is what the duo can do on a slightly slower pitch, bowlers will need to beware of what could follow on the more placid pitches elsewhere in the series.
Rabada announces himself 
Kagiso Rabada had played only 13 first-class matches before the Kanpur ODI. His only experience of bowling at the death had come in school cricket.
Suddenly, the 20-yearold, who made his ODI debut in July, found de Villiers handing him the ball for the final over of an ODI, with 11 runs to defend, against one of the best finishers of ODI cricket in Dhoni.
Rabada conceded just five, dismissing Dhoni and Stuart Binny in the process, to secure a nail-biting victory for his team.
After the match, Rabada said the presence of the senior players de Villiers and Hashim Amla helped him overcome any nerves in what he described as ‘the biggest stage of all’.
The speedster didn't pitch anything up to the batsman, attempting to bowl only deliveries that were short of length, in turn preventing the Indian batsmen from getting under him.
Rabada said it was a tactic devised by de Villiers, who advised him against attempting Yorkers.
"I was speaking to AB at that time and I said we have been bowling back of the length because that's been our plan,” he said.
"What do you think of bowling yorkers? He said, ‘No, because MS can pounce on those full balls’.
"The plan was great, and that's why that over turned out to be what it was.
"It was crucial for me to just keep a clear mind.
"I have never felt that much pressure in a game.
"Simply because of the magnitude of the players and also the level of the cricket.
"It was a big game today, very emotional for me."
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
Filed Under
12 October 2015
VIDEO
Glenn Maxwell played a vital innings of 51 from 57 balls against Western Australia's red-hot pace attack at Blacktown in the Matador BBQ One-Day Cup
Latest Videos
Lowest prices on a huge range of tools
– Eric, Team Member
Hungry Maddinson continues to learn
13 October 2015
Our voices
Boom NSW Blues opener says he's learned from the mistakes that have held him back in recent years after second one-day ton this summer
About the Writer: Callum Kanoniuk
 @ckanoniuk
Callum Kanoniuk is social media editor and writer for cricket.com.au. He likes working obscure quotes from The Simpsons into cricket tweets.
Nic Maddinson is learning. Learning where’s he gone wrong and learning what it takes to get to where he wants to be.
A second century in his fourth match of the summer suggests the process is gaining momentum, but the pleasing aspect for Australian cricket is the gifted left-hander’s clear desire to push for more.
In previous years, Maddinson had become known for his unhealthy habit of throwing away a start as much as he had for his ability to bludgeon bowling attacks across the three domestic competitions.
"Making the same mistake for five years, you get a bit sick of it after a while,” Maddinson offered with a somewhat embarrassed laugh when asked about the catalyst behind his early season surge.
"It's just being hungry for runs and not looking for a boundary ball quite as often.
"It's all mindset isn't it? There have been times when I've hit the ball as well as I am now, but I probably haven’t been applying myself as well.
“On the mental side of the game, I feel like I'm going OK.” 
Highlights: Blues cruse to fourth-straight win
Maddinson’s century in the tournament opener against the Cricket Australia XI carried the caveat that it came against a young unproven side – a claim possibly disproven since their win over Tasmania – but there was a sense that it was just the start.
He followed that up with 12 against South Australia and then a gritty 74 against Western Australia in an innings that ended in almost identical fashion with a walk down the pitch before picking out a fielder at mid-wicket.
If that was a sign he’s not quite ‘there’ yet, then his unbeaten 118 from as many as balls against Tasmania at Hurstville Oval today was an indication he’s well on the way.
Maddinson was sublime as he went up against an attack featuring current, past and prospective Australian representatives, as well as the challenge of frustrating rain delays that resulted in a moving target and reduced overs to work with.
Fifteen fours and four sixes punctuated Maddinson's innings // Getty Images
His emphatic six into the nearby playground just outside Hurstville Oval to complete the eight-wicket victory with 25 balls to spare signalled the end of quite the statement with national selectors Rod Marsh and Trevor Hohns watching the duration of his innings on a stormy afternoon in Sydney’s south.
"He's maturing and starting to play some very good cricket which is exciting not just for NSW but Australian cricket as well," Blues skipper Steve Smith told Fairfax.
"He's a huge talent. He's been hitting the ball nicely all pre-season and I think he's done that over the last couple of years; scored runs in pre-season games but died off when the real games have come around. He's started well and hopefully he can keep it up."
Maddison has formed a formidable partnership with veteran opener Ed Cowan that has produced an average opening stand of 85.5 in four matches of this year’s one-day tournament.
"I think we complement each other pretty well," Maddinson said. "He's got a very level head, so it's good for me batting with him as well."
Shane Watson congratulates Maddinson on reaching his century // Getty Imaqes
As he did against the Warriors on Saturday, Maddinson showed the patience and sense of match-awareness against Tasmania that has sometimes been lacking in his game, but this time he made the most of it to bring up the second List-A century of his career from 104 deliveries.
It’s a clear sign that the 23-year-old is making good on his pre-season promise to stop being good and become something so much more.
"Rather than scoring just the one hundred and a couple of fifties, which looks like a pretty good year, you score three or four hundreds like Adam Voges did and all of a sudden you’re the one at the top of the list," Maddinson said of his Sheffield Shield season that netted 483 runs at an average of 53.66 last summer.
"That’s where I want to improve this year. I felt like I had a good pretty year and I learned a lot about my game and how I want to play four-day cricket.
"It’s quite obvious that there are a group of batters in Shield cricket who are being looked at, so it’s a matter of whoever is scoring runs and that’s really about it.
"It’s about getting in and putting your head down and actually putting some performances on the board so that you’re the one that deserves to be there, not so much relying on players missing out with injury and hoping you can scrape in some way."
The past week proves Maddinson is a step closer to deserving to be there, but he also knows it’s only just the beginning.
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
Filed Under
Cricket Australia has announced that the Qantas Tour of Bangladesh has officially been postponed: http://cricketa.us/1PPxHfX ﻿
Read moreShow less
LIVE SCORES
Australian Cricket Family
The Australian Cricket Family (ACF) is the official membership for cricket fans in Australia- your essential link to everything that is happening in the cricket world.
Create your Cricket ID today and you will receive the following benefits:
Priority* access to discounted tickets for the International cricket season before the general public.
Access to live audio coverage of matches and free video packages
Regular e-newsletters and updates, including all the latest news from cricket.com.au
Exclusive merchandise, travel and partner offers
Fantastic member only competitions and prizes
Best of all, it's FREE to join!
The Australian Cricket Family. The home for cricket fans.
Join Now Join Now
* Conditions apply to all priority access offers. Click here to view terms and conditions of the 2015/16 ACF Priority Ticket Access Period.
Terms and Conditions of membership of the Australian Cricket Family. The 2015-16 ACF Priority Ticket Access Period has now closed.
cricket.com.au is a production of CA Digital Media - a division of Cricket Australia
© 2015 Cricket Australia.All rights reserved
Hastings, Holland and Maxwell grab three apiece as Vics defend 225 against Western Australia
Matador BBQs One-Day Cup 2015,
VIC
View Scorecard
A brilliant spell from Victorian spinner Jon Holland has condemned Western Australia to their third consecutive defeat and left their Matador BBQs One-Day Cup title defence in tatters.
Holland finished with figures of 3-36 as the Bushrangers successfully defended a target of 226 to breathe life back into their own campaign and leave the Warriors rooted to the bottom of the ladder as the only team without a win after 11 matches of the three-week tournament.
The 28-year-old Holland bowled 10 overs unchanged and picked up the key wickets of Michael Klinger, Mitchell Marsh and Cameron Bancroft, the latter bowled around his legs for 64.
Allrounder Glenn Maxwell also took three wickets to go with a polished half-century as Victoria bowled WA out for 189 to win by 36 runs.
Some late hitting from Dan Christian and John Hastings had earlier saved Victoria from a low total after WA had reduced them to 6-103 in the 30th over.
WATCH: Christian cracks unbeaten 60
Both natives of NSW – Hastings grew up in Penrith, just 30km west of Blacktown International Sports Park – the duo combined for an 81-run stand before Hastings fell for 38 from 44 balls, including two sixes.
Christian then took up the attack, smacking two sixes and two fours in a 66-ball innings of 60 not out as the Bushrangers finished with 8-225 from their 50 overs.
The Warriors now face a must-win game against the Cricket Australia XI on Thursday before equally important matches against Tasmania on Saturday and Queensland on October 21.
Victoria have moved to second on the ladder with matches against South Australia, NSW and Tasmania still to come.
WATCH: Maxi makes important fifty
Warriors spinner Ashton Agar said his teammates "felt sick" after the loss and now faced the challenge of needing to win their remaining three group games.
"We absolutely do. We have no choice now," Agar said.
"It's extremely disappointing to lose that game. Everyone feels sick in the rooms. We're a lot better than that and we need to show that.
"We have to analyse our performance and look at the positives and keep doing them really well. And we look at where we can get better and make sure we nail that next game.
"We're a team that can do that and we just have to fight really hard.
"We've done it before so there's no reason why we can't do that again and try to win these next three games."
Holland said the win put the Bushrangers back on course to win the title after they had been given a wake-up call by captain Matthew Wade following their shock loss to Queensland on Friday night.
"He's an angry little man, he's always roasting us," Holland said with a smile.
"We were all disappointed (after the Queensland game). No one likes losing. We had a fair chance to win that game and it would have put us in a good position. Every game now we must win.
"We really needed to win this game so it puts us back in the mix.
"I think we're a massive chance to win the tournament. Our chances are as good as anyone's, especially with our batting, just about everyone's played or toured for Australia and we're really confident.
"If our boys fire, we'll be hard to beat."
The Warriors had begun steadily in their run chase, with Test squad members Bancroft and Shaun Marsh putting on 53 for the first wicket before the left-hander departed for 16 from 50 balls.
WATCH: Bancroft impresses with another fifty
Holland was then introduced into the attack and removed Klinger with his second ball before he had Mitch Marsh caught behind for 5 in his third over.
Having lost 3-22 and facing a required run rate above six runs an over, captain Adam Voges joined Bancroft to rebuild the innings.
Bancroft brought up his fifty from 76 balls but his dismissal in the 35th over - bowled around his legs by Holland as he attempted a sweep shot - was the beginning of the end for the Warriors.
Voges top-edged a sweep from Maxwell's first ball to perish for 27 and the off-spinner cleaned up the tail to finish with 3-30 from five overs.
Earlier, left-armers Joel Paris and Jason Behrendorff had done the early damage for WA, with Paris removing Australia opener Aaron Finch for a first ball duck, before left-arm spinner Ashton Agar picked up the crucial wickets of Maxwell and Matthew Wade in the middle overs.
Maxwell posted a composed 51 from 57 balls before he was trapped in front by Agar, who then removed captain Wade for four with a smart return catch.
Agar, Mitch Marsh and AJ Tye all took two wickets apiece, while Nathan Coulter-Nile finished with 0-35 from 10 overs in his first match since suffering a hamstring injury during Australia's one-day series against England last month.
Star Victorian quick James Pattinson also took 0-35 from 10 overs, continuing his impressive return to domestic cricket after several years dogged by injury.
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
Filed Under
Get live matches & the latest news on your tablet & mobile
Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Google play is a trademark of Google Inc.
Stream Live Video & Audio
All over Australia, listen to radio broadcasts for free or buy a Live Pass to watch live video.
Exclusive News & Video
We get you closer to the Australian team than anyone else.
Live Scores
Keep up to date with your favourite matches ball by ball.
Subscribe & watch live!
Contact
cricket.com.au is Australia’s No.1 cricket news site.
If you are experiencing a technical issue with our app, Cricket Australia Live, or your Live Pass subscription, please email the below address:
England not weaker than 2012: Anderson
12 October 2015
Less experienced but just as strong, Anderson says // Getty Images
Laura Jolly
 @JollyLauz18
Paceman rebuffs claims by Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq that England's Test squad is weaker than during their 2012 series defeat
Fast bowler James Anderson has rejected Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq's claim that England will field a weaker Test side this month than the one which was defeated 3-0 in 2012.
In his exclusive column for cricket.com.au , Misbah wrote England "may appear to be weak compared to the team we faced on their last visit in 2012", pointing to the absence of experienced players including batsmen Kevin Pietersen and Jonathan Trott and England's premier spinners of the past decade.
"Their spinners back then, Graeme Swann and Monty Panesar, were more experienced and destructive and I feel England are going to miss them," Misbah wrote.
Andrew Strauss and Matthew Prior were also part of the England team in 2012, which lost all three Tests by margins of 10 wickets, 72 runs and 71 runs.
England struggled in 2012 // Getty Images
However Anderson believes England's 16-man squad for the three-Test series is simply less experienced.
"I wouldn't say we're weaker. I'd say we're less experienced," Anderson said.
"The quality and talent that we've got in the side is easily a match for the side that came out here in 2012.
"We're fortunate we've got players that have played out here before and can offer experience to those guys that haven't. Hopefully that will stand us in good stead."
Quick single:  Spinners, experience give us the edge over England: Misbah
The first Test will begin in Abu Dhabi tomorrow, with the hosts to be without No.3 batsman Azhar Ali, who has a foot infection.
Misbah has rated his spin stocks, led by star leg-spinner Yasir Shah and left-armer Zulfiqar Babar, as Pakistan's most valuable commodity, despite allrounder Mohammad Hafeez playing purely as a batsman while he serves a 12-month ban for bowling with an illegal action, and the omission of 2012 hero Saeed Ajmal.
Ajmal took 24 wickets against England in 2012, but has struggled to recapture the same form since remodelling his action earlier this year, after he too was reprimanded for possessing an illegal action.
Pakistan are also full of confidence after winning their Test series against Sri Lanka earlier this year, while they also have a strong record playing at their home-away-from-home in the UAE, including last year's resounding series win over Australia. 
For England, the Pakistan series looms as an opportunity to prove they can perform away from home and carry on the momentum built by their Ashes victory over Australia.
Anderson is expected to return for the first Test after missing the last two matches of the Ashes series with a side strain, having safely negotiated his way through two games for Lancashire in county cricket and one warm-up match in the UAE.
Anderson holds his side during the third Test // Getty Images
"I've played a couple of games for Lancashire and got into some form there and came through unscathed," Anderson said.
"I've not felt any issues at all so I'm raring to go."
Quick single: Flintoff recalls best, worst Aussie sledgers
However, former England captain Michael Vaughan believes the country's leading Test wicket-taker should be left on the sidelines for the first Test.
"England should not make the mistake of picking players on their past," Vaughan wrote in a column for The Telegraph.
"We have done that before. If conditions in Abu Dhabi do not favour (Anderson's) 82mph swing then why pick Jimmy?
"Perhaps go with a third spinner in Samit Patel. Pakistan will hit England with three spinners."
The tourists rested fast bowlers Anderson, Stuart Broad and Mark Wood for their second warm-up match against Pakistan A last week, suggesting they are the likely trio, alongside allrounder Ben Stokes, to form the pace attack for the first Test.
However Steven Finn stated his case for inclusion in the Test XI with a superb performance against Pakistan A, capturing 4-16.  
"I'd still be surprised if I played the first Test," Finn said.
"(But) I don't think the same bowling attack is going to play all the way through the series because of the conditions and the wickets we're playing on," Finn said.
"So if you don't play the first Test it's not the end of the world because there are two others in very quick succession to come."
The major question mark lingering over England's playing XI has been the question of who will replace Yorkshire batsman Adam Lyth as Alastair Cook's opening partner.
Opener potential: Moeen and Hales // Getty Images
But that questioned appears to have been answered by coach Trevor Bayliss following the second warm-up match, when he endorsed off-spinning allrounder Moeen Ali to adapt to the role – but admitted it was a less-than-ideal solution.
Quick single: Moeen backed as England opener
"I think at this stage Mo has probably got his nose in front," Bayliss said.
There were errors in the information you provided below. Please check the fields highlighted in red, and re-enter the correct information.
Please check your payment details are correct or provide a different payment method.
You must confirm that you have read and agreed to the ASICS Terms and Conditions
address.error.formentry.namebytes.invalid
SUBSCRIBE NOW TO RECEIVE 10% OFF YOUR NEXT PURCHASE
First Name
Sidelined Siddle eager for crack at Black Caps
12 October 2015
Peter Siddle hasn't played a competitive match since the fifth Ashes Test // Getty
Martin Smith, in Sydney
Overlooked by Victoria for the Matador Cup the Test veteran points to The Oval as evidence he's ready at the drop of a hat
VOTE NOW!CLOSES 04/11/2015 FAN RESULTS0
Should Peter Siddle play at the Gabba against New Zealand?
No
Yes
0%
Fast bowler Peter Siddle doesn't believe a shortage of competitive cricket will hurt his chances of retaining his place in Australia's XI for the first Test against New Zealand next month.
Siddle is one of three incumbent fast-bowlers ahead of the series against the Black Caps having played a starring role in Australia's victory in the fifth Ashes Test at The Oval in August.
Sidelined for the first four Tests, Siddle made a bold statement when he earned a surprise recall by taking 6-67 with 17 maidens.
Despite closing in on 200 Test wickets, the Victorian has been unable to force his way into the Commonwealth Bank Bushrangers XI during the current Matador BBQs One-Day Cup.
Quick Single: Bushrangers beat Western Warriors
Should he continue to be left out of the Victorian side during the one-day tournament, Siddle will have only this week's two-day red-ball camp and the opening round of the Sheffield Shield to prepare for the series against the Black Caps.
While conceding he's been frustrated on the sidelines, the 30-year-old says his performance at The Oval proved that a shortage of match practice would be no hindrance if indeed he's given the nod for the first Test at the Gabba, which starts on November 5.
But he dismissed the suggestion that a spot in the Test side was his to lose.
WATCH: Siddle's six at The Oval (restrictions apply)
"You never really know, that's the thing," he said.
"The selectors are always thinking about something different, so you can never assume too much about what they are thinking at the time.
"For me, it's always about just preparing (and) it's always been that way. It's been about the preparation, making sure I am ready.
"I’m just bowling and that’s all I need to do. As we’ve seen over in England, even when I hadn’t been playing I could come in and be ready to go.
"It’s disappointing not to be playing but on the other side of things you are fresh and you’re feeling good and you are ready to go when called upon."
Siddle was one of seven frontline fast-bowlers named on Monday for the two-day red-ball camp in Sydney this week.
Quick Single: Bumper red-ball camp squad announced
Mitchell Johnson and Josh Hazlewood return to the fold having been rested from the now postponed tour of Bangladesh, while the uncapped Andrew Fekete and Nathan Coulter-Nile were also included alongside left-armer Mitchell Starc and fellow Victorian James Pattinson.
Siddle expects to face stiff competition at the selection table from that group this summer for the three-Test series against New Zealand and the three Tests that follow against the West Indies.
He repeated his belief that competition for spots is a good thing, adding that his response to being axed from the Test side last summer provided a reminder of his qualities as a bowler.
"It’s probably going to be quite similar to England. You’ve got the three who were playing (Johnson, Hazlewood and Starc) and then myself and Patto, who is coming back from injury," Siddle said.
WATCH: Starc's Matador Cup march
"There’s a few players. I guess it’s going to be the same thing.
"They wanted me to go take wickets in Shield cricket last year and I took the most when I came back. That’s all I can do. That’s what I’ve got to keep doing.
"The last Test probably speaks for itself. It’s about bowling well and that’s what I’ve shown.
"When they dropped me last year and I went back (to Shield), I took wickets, had low economy and built pressure and we had the results.
"That’s what I try to do and that’s what I bring to the team. It worked for us for Victoria last year and it has worked for Australia for a long time."
So far in the Matador Cup, Victoria have preferred Pattinson, Scott Boland and John Hastings for their three-man pace attack.
The right-armer said he was going to find it difficult to force his way into the side given the strength of the Bushrangers squad and the fact he'd been preparing with the red ball for the Bangladesh tour.
WATCH: Pattinson's four tames Bulls
"It’s always hard when you haven’t played one-day cricket in a long time and you’re preparing for red ball and you have to get back (to white-ball cricket)," he said.
"That has probably been the hardest thing I guess. A lot of the boys who have come back in were playing in the one-day series over in England and have been able to slot straight in. It is a bit harder for me. And the boys have been going alright so it makes it all the more difficult.
"(Boland) has come along well. He’s just one of those kids who has been willing to listen.
"We’ve had a lot of players over the past five to 10 years at Victoria who have played for Australia. He has always had his ears open and he has been listening and taking in all the info and it’s starting to pay off. He’s a good talent."
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
About the Writer
cricket.com.au is a production of CA Digital Media - a division of Cricket Australia
© 2015 Cricket Australia.All rights reserved
Please try  searching again below
Search for:
12 October 2015
VIDEO
Western Australia opener Cameron Bancroft top scored for the Warriors with 64 from 100 against Victoria
Latest Videos
Matador BBQs One-Day Cup 2015
5-25 Oct 2015 5-25 October 2015
Standings
Stunning Starc continues Matador form
12 October 2015
VIDEO
Mitchell Starc has continued his outstanding run of form, snaring 5-39 to reduce Tasmania to just 217 at Hurstville Oval
Latest Videos
You should never miss life's precious moments, so it's important to find eye problems early... Read more
Sign up for special offers and get a $10 voucher
Enter your email here
Terms & Conditions
1. Copyright
All copyright in the text, images, photographs, graphics, user interface, and other content provided on this website and the mobile version of this website ("the Website"), and the selection, coordination, and arrangement of such content, are owned or licensed by Cricket Australia ("CA"), to the full extent provided under Australian copyright laws and all international copyright laws.
You may view the Website and its contents but you are prohibited from copying, reproducing, modifying, distributing, displaying, performing or transmitting any of the contents of the site for any purposes.
The Website and the information contained in it are for informational purposes only. Any reproduction, copying, or redistribution for commercial purposes of any materials or design elements of the site is strictly prohibited without CA's prior written consent. Systematic retrieval of data or other content from the Website to create or compile, directly or indirectly, a collection, compilation, database or directory without prior written permission from CA is prohibited.
2. Trade Marks
The Website includes registered and unregistered trade marks of CA and various third parties, including but not limited to State Cricket Associations and commercial partners of CA. You may not use these trade marks without the prior written consent of the owner of the relevant trade mark.
3. Links
The links to third party websites that are contained within this Website are provided only for your convenience. CA does not endorse those third party websites or any of the products or services offered on or through them. You access "It's probably not ideal. We've got Alex Hales here who we know can be an explosive batter. But I think Mo has shown he's a good player against spin, he can play the pace bowling and he's handled the pressure during that Ashes series.
"Mo is a good enough player that he could actually be the answer. Yes, it's not perfect, we know that, but Mo's the type of player who could very well turn himself into that other opener."
Moeen scored a total of 41 runs in his three warm-up innings in the UAE, while the other potential candidate, Hales, scored nine in his only opportunity in the middle.
The advantage of promoting Moeen, who has played as opener in one-day international cricket, is that it allows leg-spinner Adil Rashid to come into the XI without dropping a paceman.
The other area of concern for England selectors is behind the stumps.
Jos Buttler averaged 15 during the Ashes, and was rested from the ODI series that followed to give him an opportunity to rest and refresh.
However, after scores of 1, 8 and 31no in the UAE warm-ups, Bayliss admitted the 'keeper was under pressure to retain his place.
"To be honest, I can't confirm (Buttler's place)," Bayliss said.
"His form has been a concern and for him as well.
"But it was good to see him out there looking like he was getting his touch back this afternoon and scoring some runs. But we've got to make a decision."
Should Buttler be replaced by Jonny Bairstow – who all but sured up his place in the middle-order with an unbeaten 61 against Pakistan A – it would allow James Taylor to return to the side for the first time since August 2012.
Taylor, who was called into the Test squad after impressing against Australia during the ODI series, scored 61 when given an opportunity in the second tour game.
"Playing them both (Bairstow and Taylor) is a possibility, definitely. Nothing's off the table just yet," Bayliss said.
The three-match series will also see Tests played in Dubai (October 22) and Sharjah (November 1), before four ODIs and three Twenty internationals.
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
About the Writer
Female participation increase in past 5 years
1,208,360
Australians participated in cricket during 2014-15
CHAMPIONS
2015 ICC World Cup Winner
Cricket is a Sport
One-day spin battle heats up
13 October 2015
Ashton Agar snared two wickets against the Bushrangers // Getty Images
Martin Smith, Sydney
 @martinsmith9994
Maxwell, Holland and Agar impressed in Matador Cup action yesterday as each player pressed his claim for the ODI top spot
An intriguing contest between three men with strong claims on being Australia's No.1 spinner in 50-over cricket – Glenn Maxwell, Ashton Agar and Jon Holland – ended in an entertaining draw at Blacktown International Sports Park on Monday.
Victorian duo Maxwell and Holland played a starring role in the Commonwealth Bank Bushrangers’ 36-run win over Western Australia , for whom Agar performed strongly with two key middle-order wickets and a late cameo with the bat.
Maxwell was Australia's sole spinner in all but one of their matches during their successful World Cup campaign this year – Xavier Doherty was included to take on Sri Lanka at the SCG – and the allrounder performed strongly throughout, taking six wickets in eight matches including the vital scalp of New Zealand's Martin Guptill in the final. 
Highlights: Bushrangers down Warriors to move in to second place
A man selected for his powerful hitting as much as his bowling, Maxwell carried the majority of the spin burden in Australia's ODI side throughout 2014 and was his country's second-highest wicket-taker last year.
But Agar's elevation to the squad for the five-match series against England last month indicates that selectors are keen to trial other long-term options for their World Cup title defence in 2019.
The left-armer played just two games on tour, but it was enough for coach Darren Lehmann to sing his praises on Perth radio this week.
And Agar did his chances of retention in the squad for Australia's next ODI assignment, against India in January, no harm on Monday with the wickets of Maxwell and Matthew Wade and an eye-catching innings of 33 batting at No.7.
But the 21-year-old played down the suggestion that his selection for the England tour makes him the front-runner for upcoming series.
"I think once you start feeling comfortable your spot starts slipping away," Agar said. "I don't feel comfortable at all or feel like that spot's mine.
"I've just got to keep playing well. That's what I'm thinking about right now and the rest will take care of itself.
"I was happy with the way I bowled (today). I've been working on the lengths I've been trying to bowl and I felt like I adjusted that quite well. I've been working on that in the nets with Adam Griffith and the ball came out nicely today."
As impressive as Agar was, the spin performance of the day was that of fellow left-armer Holland.
The 28-year-old bowled unchanged in the middle overs and picked up the key wickets of Michael Klinger, Mitchell Marsh and Cameron Bancroft as the Bushrangers choked the Warriors in the run chase.
The highlight of Holland's figures of 3-36 from 10 overs was the wicket of Bancroft, bowled around his legs attempting a sweep shot when on 64. 
Watch: Holland classic bowls Bancroft
Holland's performance added credence to Victoria's decision to pick him ahead of leg-spinner Fawad Ahmed for this Matador Cup, a show of faith the left-armer says has given him a boost.
Quick Single: Fawad's emphatic message to Vics
"It's good to know that the selectors and the coaching staff are backing you," he said.
"The last few years I've bowled quite well in the one-day stuff so I feel comfortable with where I'm at.
"It's quite a slow wicket (at Blacktown). I don't think it turned massively but there was just enough there and just held in the wicket a little bit so they couldn't play their shots.
"It was good to bowl on and three wickets is pretty good."
Holland earned a shock elevation to Australia's ODI squad way back in 2009 but is still yet to represent his country at the highest level.
He came close on that 2009 tour of India; he was told by Ricky Ponting that he would play in the final game of the series in Mumbai, only for monsoonal rains that began just moments later to wash away the match and Holland's chance to debut.
He produced magnificent figures of 6-29 in a domestic 50-over game in Adelaide in early 2012, leading then selector John Inverarity to describe him as the second-best spinner in the country behind Nathan Lyon.
But just eight days after Inverarity's comments at the start of the 2012-13 summer, Holland's season was over, a freak accident in club cricket wrecking his spinning shoulder.
Holland been no stranger to the injury ward in the years since, but he's been able to enter this 2015-16 season without a concern surrounding his fitness.
"Everyone who plays at state level is aiming to play for Australia," he said.
"Obviously it's in the back of your mind. But Maxi did a great job in the World Cup and continues to do a great job for us. We'll see what happens.
"It's the first real pre-season I've had in a while so I've done a lot more bowling in the winter and we just adjusted a few things that we identified and it feels like it's coming out really well.
"I just tried to stay up a bit taller and a bit higher with my front arm and (keep) my head up straight.
"I was falling away a little bit and I've just tried to work on that with a couple of coaches back home and it feels good." 
Extended highlights: Victoria v Western Australia 
As soon as the Holland show was over on Monday, Maxwell entered the stage.
The 26-year-old replaced his fellow spinner and picked up three late wickets to go with a composed half-century with the bat, a performance that earned him man of the match honours and provided a reminder that there's plenty of substance behind the reverse sweeps and electric fielding.
It underlined Maxwell's value to Australia's one-day side and why the allrounder is eyeing off a Test recall this summer.
"Maxi's great to have in your team. He's a real match winner," Holland said. "He can flick the switch whenever he wants and can change the game.
"To have Maxi in the team is a real confidence booster for everyone out there."
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
About the Writer
De Villiers fined and warned
12 October 2015
cricket.com.au
South Africa superstar penalised and facing suspension for a repeat offence, ICC says
South Africa captain AB De Villiers has been fined 40 per cent of his match fee after the Proteas were found guilty of a slow over-rate during their victory in the opening game of the ODI series against India at Kanpuron.
Report & scorecard: Proteas win thriller
The International Cricket Council said South Africa's 'minor over-rate offence' means all players in the team were fined 20 per cent with the captain fined double that amount.
De Villiers had previously been found guilty of minor over-rate offences on two occasions in the past 12 months (in Perth in November 2014 and during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015), and served a one match suspension during the first ODI against Bangladesh in July.
"If South Africa commits another minor over rate breach in ODIs within 12 months of this offence with de Villiers as captain, it will be deemed a second offence by de Villiers and he will again face a suspension," the ICC said, in a statement.
De Villiers pleaded guilty to the offence and accepted the proposed sanction so there was no need for a formal hearing.
First ODI, match report
A brilliant 150 off 133 balls from Rohit Sharma was in vain as South Africa defeated India by five runs in the first one-day international in Kanpur.
In a high-scoring thriller helped by short boundaries at the packed Green Park stadium on Sunday, India made a spirited chase of the Proteas' challenging 5-303 before being stopped just short on 7-298.
Sharma nearly upstaged South African captain AB de Villiers' 104 off 73 balls before the tourists' bowlers fought back in front of 40,000 home fans.
Rohit Sharma was outstanding for India // Getty Images
Leg-spinner Imran Tahir removed Sharma and Suresh Raina in the space of five deliveries in the 47th over, before 20-year-old fast bowler Kagiso Rabada nailed his side's victory in the final over.
Quick single: Ashwin injury blow for India
With India needing 11 runs off six balls, Rabada conceded just five runs and claimed two wickets, including the important one of skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni for 31, to dash India's hopes.
The victory put South Africa ahead in the five-match series, which follows their 2-0 success in the preceding Twenty20 games.
"It was an amazing game of cricket," said a visibly tired and relieved de Villiers, who was named man of the match.
"It is close games like these that bring the fans in.
"The momentum turned around several times, but I thought Tahir turned the game on its head. Rabada, of course, proved to be a handful with his pace. He's got a bright future."
AB de Villiers scored a match-winning ton // Getty Images
India were dealt a blow when frontline spinner Ravichandran Ashwin, playing his 100th one-dayer, suffered a side strain while bowling his fourth over and left the field.
Quick single:  Spinners, experience give Pakistan edge over England
Ashwin returned to bowl only one more over before going off again. Fellow off-spinner Harbhajan Singh has been drafted into the squad as a precaution.
Dhoni said he was disappointed by the narrow loss, which he blamed on his bowlers leaking runs in the final overs.
"The outcome was not great for us," he said.
"There were plenty that went wrong, but we showed character to get close. Frankly, we should have won this game.
"We missed the six overs from Ash (Ashwin), which was crucial because he is our best spinner. But the bowlers should have done a bit better.
"The partnership between Rohit and Rahane was superb. This was a fantastic innings from Rohit. It wasn't an easy wicket to bat on but he made it look so easy."
The second one-dayer will be played in Indore on Wednesday.
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
Filed Under
Our Voices
Misbah-ul-Haq
Captain of the Pakistan Test team, Misbah-ul-Haq has represented his country in more than 250 matches across all formats since making his international debut in 2001.
Martin Smith
Martin Smith is a writer for cricket.com.au. He previously wrote for Yahoo!7 Sport and Fox Sports.
Callum Kanoniuk
Callum Kanoniuk is social media editor and writer for cricket.com.au. He likes working obscure quotes from The Simpsons into cricket tweets.
Laura Jolly
Laura Jolly is a writer for cricket.com.au. She previously wrote for News Corp Australia and the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015. 
Adam Burnett
 @AdamBurnett09
Adam Burnett is the deputy news editor of cricket.com.au and senior news editor of bigbash.com.au. He previously wrote for and edited at Inside Cricket magazine and The Sydney Morning Herald in Australia and The Telegraph and The Guardian in the UK.
Dave Middleton
Dave Middleton is cricket.com.au's senior news editor. From Queensland, he spent 10 years in the UK where he wrote for The Times, The Sunday Times, the Guardian and The Telegraph.
Sam Ferris
Sam Ferris is a writer for cricket.com.au. He started in 2011 as a Big Bash League correspondent and continues to monitor the domestic scene and national sides closely.
Lisa Sthalekar
Lisa Sthalekar is an Australian cricket legend who was the first player to score 1,000 runs and take 100 wickets in ODIs in her glittering Commonwealth Bank Southern Stars career.
Glenn McGrath
 @glennmcgrath11
The Australian fast-bowling legend took a record 563 wickets in his 124-Test career and is a three-time World Cup winner. A tireless campaigner for charity he has helped make the annual SCG 'Pink Test' an institution in memory of his late wife, Jane.
Andrew Ramsey
Andrew Ramsey is the senior writer for cricket.com.au. He previously wrote for the Guardian, The Australian, The Times, The Telegraph, The Hindu and Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack and the author of The Wrong Line .
Darren Lehmann
Darren Lehmann is head coach of the Australian Cricket Team. He played 27 Tests and 117 ODIs for Australia. He became coach in mid 2013, guiding the team to the 2015 World Cup.
Shane Watson
Shane Watson is an Australian allrounder who plays for NSW, Sydney Thunder and the Rajasthan Royals.
Adam Voges
A veteran of Australian and international cricket for more than a decade, the reigning Bupa Sheffield Shield player of the year will be writing blogs for cricket.com.au throughout the winter.
Damien Fleming
Damien Fleming is one of cricket's great characters who is one of only three men who took a Test hat-trick on debut; a fact The Bowlologist doesn't mind reminding people of.
Ryan Harris
Ryan Harris is one of Australian cricket's most beloved players and the man skipper Michael Clarke says is "the first player selected in the Australian team".
Jacques Kallis
 @jacqueskallis75
Jacques Kallis is one of the greatest cricketers of all time. The South African is the only cricketer in the history of the game to score more than 11,000 runs and take 250 wickets in both one-day and Test match cricket.
Ben Wise
Ben Wise is cricket.com.au's head of content. He previously held similar roles at Southern Cross Austereo (Triple M) and Fairfax Radio.
Greg Chappell
Greg Chappell is a legend of Australian cricket who amassed 7,110 Test runs at the incredible average of 53.86. He is now National Talent Manager at the Bupa National Cricket Centre.
Dan Allan
Dan Allan is a writer for cricket.com.au and the Commonwealth Bank Southern Stars correspondent. He previously worked for Melbourne Football Club and thinks everything is 'glorious'.
Angela Pippos
Angela Pippos is an award-winning journalist, author and MC who has almost two decades of experience in sports media. She published her first book The Goddess Advantage in 2006.
Jim Maxwell
ABC Grandstand’s head cricket commentator Jim Maxwell will followthose third party websites and use the products and services offered on or through them at your own risk.
CA welcomes other website managers and administrators using the CA logo as a link from their site to the www.cricket.com.au home page.
4. Your Conduct
As a condition of your use of the Website, you warrant to CA that you will not use the Website for any purpose that is unlawful or in a manner prohibited by these terms of use. In particular, you agree not to:
use the Website for any activities, or submit to or via the Website any information or materials, which breach any laws or regulations or infringe a third party's patent, trade mark, copyright or other proprietary rights or privacy;
publish, distribute, transmit or disseminate on the Website any material which is unlawful, obscene, defamatory, indecent, offensive, inappropriate or racially, ethnically or otherwise objectionable;
promote any unsolicited or unauthorised advertising, promotional materials, surveys, contests, pyramid schemes, chain letters, unsolicited e-mailing or spamming via the Website;
impersonate any person or entity;
upload, post, email or otherwise transmit any material that contains software viruses or any other computer code, files or programs designed to interrupt, destroy or limit the functionality of any computer software or hardware; or
undertake any conduct that, in CA’s sole discretion, restricts or inhibits any other user from using or enjoying the Website.
By posting or submitting content to the Website, you represent and warrant that (i) you own all the rights to the content or are authorised to use and distribute the content via the Website and (ii) the content does not and will not infringe any copyright or any other third-party right nor violate any applicable law or regulation.
CA reserves the right to pre-screen content submitted for publication on the CA website. CA may refuse to publish or remove content that, in its sole discretion, does not meet its standards or does not comply with these terms of use. CA is not responsible for any failure to publish or delay in removing such material.
You agree that CA can publish, modify, adapt and retransmit to others any content submitted by you free of charge and without restriction, subject to the obligations on CA set out in our privacy policy.
You will indemnify CA, its employees, agents and representatives from any loss or damage including consequential loss or damage which may arise from the posting or deletion of your submitted content or from any breach by you of these terms or from your use of the Website.
cricket.com.au is a production of CA Digital Media - a division of Cricket Australia
© 2015 Cricket Australia.All rights reserved
Faulkner's fifty helps Tassie reach 217
12 October 2015
VIDEO
Tasmania allrounder James Faulkner scored an important fifty for the Tigers as they struggled to weather the storm of Mitchell Starc's bowling at Bankstown Oval
Latest Videos
Anderson ruled out of Australia Test series
12 October 2015
Anderson (L) will not feature in Australia this summer // Getty Images
Sam Ferris
 @samuelfez
Allrounder fails to recover from back injury as club teammate Mitchell Santner gets call up
Hard-hitting New Zealand allrounder Corey Anderson has been ruled out of the Black Caps Test tour to Australia after failing to recover from a back injury.
Anderson suffered a stress related injury to his back in New Zealand’s first Test loss to England at Lord’s in June, forcing the 24-year-old out of the series-levelling win at Leeds the following week before being sent home.
The demands of Test match cricket were deemed too great for the mending left-armer, with his exclusion a big blow for the touring Black Caps in the three-Test series which begins in Brisbane on November 5.
“Corey hasn’t been able to recover as quickly as we hoped and we’ve chosen not to try to rush him back,” said Black Caps selector Gavin Larsen.
“We’ve always said there were a number of checkpoints for him to meet before our departure date, and we’re now in a position to confirm he’s not ready.
“With that in mind, it’s better for him to continue his rehabilitation at Lincoln.”
Northern Districts teammate and fellow allrounder Mitchell Santner has been named as Anderson’s replacement as New Zealand aim to win their first Test series in Australia since 1985.
Santner, a 23-year-old left-arm orthodox bowler and left-handed batsman, joins allrounders Doug Bracewell and Jimmy Neesham in the 15-man touring party , with Bracewell the likely replacement for Anderson.
Bracewell inspired New Zealand to their first Test win across the Tasman in 26 years the last time the Black Caps visited Australia in 2011, taking 6-40 in the second innings in Hobart to clinch victory by seven runs and square the series one-all.
That two-Test series four years ago featured the debuts of Black Caps swing bowler Trent Boult and Australia trio Mitchell Starc, David Warner and James Pattinson.
New Zealand are set to depart for Australia on October 20 ahead of the first Test in Brisbane, followed by the second Test in Perth on November 13 and the maiden day-night Test at the Adelaide Oval on November 27. 
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
About the Writer
LIVE SCORES
Collection Statement
Cricket Australia and State or Territory cricket associations, including the Big Bash League teams (together, "Australian Cricket") collects your personal information to communicate with you in relation to information and offers from Australian Cricket and to provide Australian Cricket’s products and services.
By providing your personal information you agree it will be disclosed to, and used by, Australian Cricket under the terms of this statement and Australian Cricket's Privacy Policy (at www.cricket.com.au/privacy ), which contains information about how you may access and seek to correct your personal information or complain about a breach of your privacy, and how Australian Cricket will deal with that complaint.
Australian Cricket may disclose your personal information to other parties, including Australian Cricket's third party service providers, who may be located (and so your personal information may be disclosed) overseas, including in India, the USA and the UK, and other countries from time to time. Australian Cricket may use and disclose your personal information for direct marketing purposes, unless you opt out (which you can do at any time in accordance with Australian Cricket's Privacy Policy).
cricket.com.au is a production of CA Digital Media - a division of Cricket Australia
© 2015 Cricket Australia.All rights reserved
Rolling thunder chasing the wind
12 October 2015
VIDEO
A timelapse of the storm that rolled through the NSW Blues v Tasmania Tigers Matador BBQs One-Day Cup match at Hurstville today
Latest Videos
See our important disclosures and comparison rate warning
Credit Cards
Injuries hit Pakistan and England
12 October 2015
A grimacing Yasir Shah is helped from the field at Abu Dhabi // Getty
cricket.com.au
Pakistan star leg-spinner Yasir Shah in doubt while England rule out paceman Steven Finn
Injury concerns have hit both camps ahead of the opening Test of the Pakistan-England series in the UAE.
The hosts are sweating on the fitness of star leg-spinner Yasir Shah, who went down with back spasms at the Pakistan training session today on the eve of tomorrow's first Test in Abu Dhabi.
Pakistan captain and cricket.com.au columnist Misbah-ul-Haq said if Yasir was ruled out it would be "huge blow" for his side.
Yasir lays prone in the nets at Abu Dhabi // Getty
The 29-year-old who has picked up 61 wickets in 10 Tests will be given every chance to play, with no decision made until the morning of the game.
However, pakistan have drafted in Zafar Gohar as emergency cover, a 20-year-old left-arm spinner who has played just eight first-class games for 37 wickets at 21.27. He took 2-47 and 3-72 against the touring Englishmen for Pakistan A last week.
Quick Single: Anderson denies England 'weaker' than 2012 team
England Australia’s tour of the United Kingdom as Grandstand brings you every ball of the Ashes series live.
Kesha  West
 @keshawest01
Kesha West is cricket.com.au's chief of staff. After a stint in regional television in Queensland, she worked as a journalist for the BBC and ITV in the UK before returning home to take up a role as a senior international current affairs reporter for the ABC.
Mazher Arshad
Steve Smith is one of the rising stars in world cricket and is now a leader of the Australian Cricket Team.
Our Videographers
Adam Goldfinch
Adam is an Emmy-awarding winning cameraman, with a television  sport background stretching back more than a decade.  He has worked with numerous sporting organisations, teams and  programs including FIFA, UEFA, EPL, BBC, Sky, and ESPN and on  events such as the Cricket and Football World Cups, Olympics, the  Premier League, European football championships, Champions League,  international Test cricket, IPL, America's Cups and World's Strongest Man.
Andre Mauger
Andre recently joined Cricket Australia as a cameraman/editor after six  years as a video journalist with Melbourne's Herald Sun. Concentrating  mostly in sport, Andre has produced news and feature videos with  several of Australia's leading print journalists and athletes, including an  award-winning piece with AFL identity Jason Akermanis and his  involvement in regional football.
cricket.com.au is a production of CA Digital Media - a division of Cricket Australia
© 2015 Cricket Australia.All rights reserved
cricket.com.au is a production of CA Digital Media - a division of Cricket Australia
© 2015 Cricket Australia.All rights reserved
To view pricing information set your local Store  here .
×
7.30 TONIGHT ON TEN
TBL Families
The Pestells' positive progress is thrown dramatically off track and the families are beach-bound for the latest challenge
7.30 WEDNESDAY ON TEN
The Bachelorette
Hometown week is here and the families waste no time in getting to the heart of things. Is Sam ready to meet the parents?
WEEKNIGHTS ON ELEVEN
The Late Show with Stephen Colbert
Join Stephen Colbert and celebrity guests for conversation and comedy in the world's most iconic late night chat show
6.30 TONIGHT ON TEN
The Project
Multi-talented entertainer David Walliams, star of Little Britain and best-selling children’s author, heads the Tuesday line-up
LIVE SCORES
Australian Cricket Privacy Policy
Cricket Australia respects your privacy and is committed to protecting your personal information. This document sets out our policy on how we will manage your personal information.
What is personal information?
Personal information is information or an opinion (including information or an opinion forming part of a database) from which it is possible to determine your identity.  Examples of personal information include your name, postal address, telephone number and email address. 
How do we collect your personal information?
We collect personal information about you in a number of ways, including:
Directly from you, for example, when you provide information to us by phone, email, in an application form or competition entry form, when you join a Cricket Australia fan club (including without limitation the Australian Cricket Family or the Aussie Cricket Crew), submit information through our web sites (including without limitation cricket.com.au and mycricket.cricket.com.au) or through Cricket Australia Live: The Official App; and
From third parties, such as the State and Territory cricket associations, ticket agencies and Cricket Australia commercial partners.
The personal information collected and held about you includes:
your name, address, email address, age, gender, occupation, contact information;
information about your favourite BBL club;
information about dealings with Cricket Australia subscriptions for Cricket Australia services;
details of cricket programs you have participated in and the organisations you have participated with;
details of items ordered or purchased from us;
background checks including police checks and working with children checked if you apply or employment, coaching and volunteer positions
other information provided voluntarily by you, for example in response to surveys or competitions.
How do we use your personal information?
We and the State and Territory cricket associations, to whom we disclose your personal information in accordance with this Privacy Policy, may use your personal information for the primary purpose for which it was collected and secondary purposes related to the primary purpose. Such primary and secondary purposes may include, without limitation use of your personal information to:
Verify your identity;
Develop, run, administer and market competitions, programs, activities and other Events relating to cricket and other sports;
Market products, services, merchandise and special offers made available by us or the State and Territory cricket associations or our respective corporate partners, licensees, suppliers and sponsors;
Administer and manage our respective web sites and provide you with access to those web sites;
Keep you informed of news and information (such as advance notice of ticket sales) relating to cricket and other sports, including by distributing newsletters, publications and other communication via various mediums;
Research and develop new competitions, programs, activities and other events relating to cricket and other sports; and
Research and develop new products, services and merchandise relating to cricket and other sports.
If you do not wish to receive our newsletters, publications and other communications, please contact us (our contact details are set out below).
Health and sensitive information
In some circumstances we may collect:
Information about your health; or
Other sensitive information about you (for example, information about your racial or ethnic origin).
We may use health information about you to ensure that cricket programs in which you participate are run safely and in accordance with any special health needs you may have and for insurance purposes.
In addition, we may use de-identified health information and other sensitive information to carry out research, to prepare submissions to government or a government body or to plan events and activities.  De-identified information is information which has been aggregated or otherwise de-identified so that it cannot be used to identify you or any other individual.
When do we disclose your personal information?
We may disclose your personal information to:
The various State and Territory cricket associations;
Organisations (other than the State and Territory cricket associations) involved in cricket and sporting programs and initiatives in Australia; 
Companies that we have engaged to carry out functions and activities on our behalf;
Our professional advisers, including our accountants, auditors and lawyers; 
Our insurers;
The Australian Institute of Sport; and
Otherwise as required or authorised by law.
Our web sites
When you visit our web sites, our systems may record certain information about your use of those web sites (such as which web pages you visit and the time and date of your visit).  We use this information to help analyse and improve the performance of our web sites.
In addition, we may use “cookies” on our web sites.  Cookies are small text files that help a web site to remember your preferences and improve your experience of using that web site.  
Using cookies is standard practice for most large web sites.  In some cases, the cookies that we use may collect some personal information about you.  
We will treat this information in the same way as other personal information we collect about you.  
If you prefer, you may be able to disable cookies on your internet browser.  However, if you do so, you will not be able to enjoy the enhanced user experience that our cookies offer.
We have engaged Nielsen NetRatings to help analyse how our web sites are used.  
This analysis is performed using data collected from the web sites.  However, this information is not intended to and will generally not include any personal information.  
If you would prefer that Nielsen NetRatings do not collect even any anonymous data about how you use our web sites, you can opt-out by visiting the following web page: http://www.netratings.com/privacy.jsp?section=leg_scs
Web beacons are images that originate from a third party site to track visitor activities.  
We use web beacons to track the visiting patterns and browsing habits of individuals accessing our website.  
This information is not intended to and will generally not include any personal information, and we will not use the information to identify any individual. 
We may also collect Internet Protocol (IP) addresses relating to you when you access and use the web sites.  
IP addresses are assigned to computers on the internet to uniquely identify them within the global network of computers which makes up the internet.  
We may collect and manage IP addresses for internet session management and security purposes.
Accuracy of your personal information
We take all reasonable precautions to ensure that the personal information we collect, use and disclose is accurate, complete and up-to-date.  
However, we rely on the accuracy of personal information as provided to us both directly and indirectly.
If you find that the personal information we hold about you is inaccurate, incomplete or out-of-date, please contact us immediately (our contact details are set out below) and we will take reasonable steps to ensure that it is corrected.
How can you access the personal information we hold about you?
Subject to some exceptions provided by law, you have the right to access your personal information.  
For security purposes, if you would like to access personal information that we hold about you, we require you to put your request in writing.  
If we do not allow you access to any part of the personal information we hold about you, we will tell you why.  
We will not charge you for lodging a request to access your personal information, but we may charge you for our reasonable costs in supplying you with access to this information.
How to contact us
If you would like to access the personal information that Cricket Australia holds about you, have any questions in relation to this Privacy Policy or have a complaint, you can write to Cricket Australia's Privacy Officer at 60 Jolimont Street, Jolimont, VIC, 3002 or send an email to privacy@cricket.com.au . 
Cricket Australia takes all privacy complaints seriously will investigate your complaint in a confidential manner and you will be informed of the outcome of the investigation within a reasonable period of time.
Changes to this Privacy Policy
From time to time, we may need to change this Privacy Policy to reflect our changing business practices.  We will notify you of any amendments by posting an updated version of this Privacy Policy on our web site ( www.cricket.com.au ).
cricket.com.au is a production of CA Digital Media - a division of Cricket Australia
© 2015 Cricket Australia.All rights reserved
Spinners, experience give us the edge over England: Misbah
11 October 2015
Series wins against Sri Lanka and Australia have boosted Misbah-ul-Haq's and Pakistan's confidence // Getty Images
Our voices
England look a weaker side than the one we beat in 2012 but Ashes win will have them full of confidence, writes Pakistan captain
About the Writer: Misbah-ul-Haq
Captain of the Pakistan Test team, Misbah-ul-Haq has represented his country in more than 250 matches across all formats since making his international debut in 2001.
After winning the series against Sri Lanka and considering our past performances in the United Arab Emirates, we're full of confidence to face England. There is no doubt that beating them will be a huge challenge as they are coming here on the back of an Ashes win.
Our fans have lot of expectations from us therefore we need to put up a determined show and repeat the performances we gave against Australia and Sri Lanka. 
England have a new team and, on paper, they may appear to be weak compared to the team we faced on their last visit in 2012. But keeping their recent performances in mind they have the team which can give us a tough time. They know the mistakes they made on the previous tour so they will be better prepared this time. 
Losing that series 0-3 would have been a bitter experience for them and will no doubt make them more determined this time. Their spinners back then, Graeme Swann and Monty Panesar, were more experienced and destructive and I feel England are going to miss them. They had some big-name batsmen too, in Kevin Pietersen and Jonathan Trott who will be missed. 
A frustrated Kevin Pietersen after being dismissed in 2012 // Getty Images
England’s strength however lies in their pace attack, and we all saw what they did to Australia in the Ashes. They were extremely good with the new ball and also showed their skill with reverse swing. Even in the 2012 series here, albeit it was during the winter when the pitches had moisture, their pace attack didn’t let us post big totals. We struggled against their seamers hence surviving against new ball will be a key factor in this series. 
England’s other strong suit is their allrounders, especially Ben Stokes. He adds so much depth to their batting. And then there is Mooen Ali whose spin cannot be taken lightly. Taking 19 wickets in a series against India was no mean achievement. 
The inexperience of their squad in the Asian conditions will be their weakness. Most of their players are touring the UAE for the first time. It will be a challenge for their batsmen to bat on the slow pitches against our quality spin attack. 
As far as our strength is concerned I think, on the evidence of our recent series wins against Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Australia, it is our spin bowling. It is undoubtedly our strongest suit. 
Spinner Yasir Shah celebrates a wicket against Sri Lanka in June // Getty Images
I would also like to mention the number of centuries our batsmen have scored lately. They helped us in putting up big totals. If you score 400-plus in the UAE then the chances of losing the game become slim. If you can grind the opposition for nearly two days in the UAE’s hot weather then it becomes easy for your bowlers to dominate them. 
We need to be consistent with the batting performances. I feel the inconsistency with the bat is our only concern. If our batsmen manage to negotiate the new ball and bat well in the first session we will be in the driving seat. 
We can draw comfort from the fact that we have comprehensibly beaten a mighty team like Australia just last year. It will give us motivation but having said that I think every series is a new series and every game is a new game. You can’t predict victories based on the previous wins. Confidence will surely be there but we need to apply ourselves again to beat England. 
Joe Root will be their key player. He has scored runs at home and abroad and he is equally good against pace and spin. We will need to come up with special plans to tackle him. If you can control the threat of the opposition’s best player you stand more chances of winning. 
Joe Root cools down after a nets session in Sharjah // Getty Images 
Pakistan have not played a Test at home in the past six years. So as a cricket fan and a player I was really disappointed to learn Australia would not be touring Bangladesh due to security concerns. It is simply not good for our game. 
We already have just nine or ten countries where cricket is played and if such situations keep arising then we will be left with even less. It will become really difficult for cricket to grow. 
As a cricketer it is a huge disappointment for me. The governments should take special measures and make sure that cricket does not get affected. 
Of all the bowlers I have faced in international cricket, Shane Warne was the most difficult. I played against him at the initial stage of my career. In three Tests against him in 2002 I came to know that he is a kind of bowler who can put batsmen in trouble anywhere and anytime. I don’t have much problems while playing spin but Warne is another story altogether. 
Among fast bowlers, I have faced world class bowlers like Glenn McGrath and Brett Lee but the one who I found most threatening was Jason Gillespie. His rhythm and action was too tough to handle. 
Got him! Warne snares Misbah in 2002 // Getty Images
Apart from him I have been troubled by Morne Morkel because of his awkward bounce. No doubt Dale Steyn is a great bowler too but I found Morkel more difficult to handle. Sri Lanka’s Nuwan Kulasekara was also a tough cookie. Though he was a medium-pacer his swing bowling was hard to negotiate. 
There was this match in Johannesburg where we were all out on 49. Styen did the major damage by takings six wickets but in that match Azhar Ali and myself found ourselves totally at sea when facing Morne Morkel. In one of his spells and we had no clue what was happening. 
Also I cannot forget the Bangalore Test in 2007. There were so many cracks on the pitch and it had become really difficult to bat on. Ishant Sharma on debut was doing the tricks. He had Faisal Iqbal out with the second new ball and after that Kamran Akmal had a partnership with me.  
Not only did I survive the spell I went on to score a hundred. It was one of the best bowling spells which I survived.
WATCH: Misbah destroys Australia to equal Sir Viv
The best day of my Test career though was in Abu Dhabi in 2014 when I equaled Sir Viv Richards’ fastest century record. 
I was actually under lot of pressure before the series. I had not scored runs in the ODI series and I rested myself from the third match. I hit some form with a 69 in the first Test in Dubai and then scored a hundred in first innings of the second Test in Abu Dhabi but just when I was enjoying my batting I was caught and bowled by Steven Smith. 
I was really frustrated and angry at myself for getting out to a part-time bowler so I came to bat in the second innings with an aim to score against Smith. 
I managed to hit some good shots off him and soon reached fifty. When I reached 70 I got the message from dressing room that there is a possibility of the fastest century. I just took the chance and reached the century in 56 balls.
To achieve this feat against a world class team like Australia was a great achievement and a huge moment of satisfaction.
Speedy century: Misbah dominated Australia in 2014 // Getty Images
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
Filed Under
12 October 2015
VIDEO
A half-century and three crucial wickets with his off-spin earned Glenn Maxwell man of the match honours as Victoria kept the Western Warriors winless
Latest Videos
12 October 2015
VIDEO
Another five wickets to Michell Starc and a century for Nic Maddinson have handed the Tasmanian Tigers a hiding in Matador BBQs One-Day Cup action
Latest Videos
Vettori to mentor Aussie Ashes rivals
13 October 2015
Vettori will lend his years of expertise to England's spin stocks // Getty Images
AFP
 @AFP
Champrion Black Caps spinner set to help England's slow bowlers in Dubai this summer
England on Monday announced that New Zealand great Daniel Vettori is to help the country's up-and-coming spinners in Dubai in an attempt to groom young slow bowlers for the future.
The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) announced over 20 English spin bowlers will play and train overseas this winter.
"Seven promising spinners will follow Moeen Ali, Adil Rashid and Samit Patel to the UAE this autumn, when their coaches on the England Performance Programme (EPP) will include the former New Zealand captain Daniel Vettori," said the ECB release.
Rashid (L) and Moeen are set to feature for England in the UAE against Pakistan // Getty Images
Vettori, who took more than 700 wickets in international cricket, has already made a successful move into coaching in Twenty20 leagues in India and Australia.
"Vettori will join the group led by Andy Flower, in Dubai for 10 days in November."
Quick Single: England not weaker than 2012: Anderson
England have traditionally struggled against spinners in South Asia, losing 3-0 to Pakistan in United Arab Emirates in 2012.
They are also up against spinners in their three-match series against Pakistan starting in Abu Dhabi from Tuesday.
EPP spin bowling coach Peter Such welcomed Vettori's signing.
"Daniel has been one of the most successful and respected spinners in world cricket for almost two decades, so we are delighted to add his considerable experience to the England Performance Programme this winter.
As part of the EPP batting and spin group heading to Dubai, Vettori will be working with Surrey all-rounder Zafar Ansari, new Sussex signing Danny Briggs, Tom Westley (Essex) and Stephen Parry (Lancashire).
Spinners Ravi Patel (Middlesex), Will Beer (Sussex) and Matt Carter, who made a stunning County Championship debut for Nottinghamshire at Somerset earlier this summer, will also be accompanying the EPP squad to the UAE in a net bowling capacity.
Vettori, 36, will coach KFC Big Bash League club the Brisbane Heat this summer after retiring from international cricket following New Zealand's maiden World Cup final appearance in March. 
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
Filed Under
12 October 2015
VIDEO
Allrounder Dan Christian scores his second 50-over half-century for Victoria to revive the Bushrangers' innings against Western Australia
Latest Videos
'I got sick of making the same mistakes'
12 October 2015
VIDEO
NSW opener Nic Maddinson explains his change in mindset and hunger for runs after a match-winning century against Tasmania
Latest Videos
In order to bring you the best possible user experience, this site uses Javascript. If you are seeing this message, it is likely that the Javascript option in your browser is disabled. For optimal viewing of this site, please ensure that Javascript is enabled for your browser.
 
Warner (M) has been commentating while his thumb heals // Getty IMages
Martin Smith, Sydney
 @martinsmith9994
Dynamic opening batsman confident his broken thumb will heal in time for the first Test of the summer
He's been unable to pick up a bat for five weeks, but vice-captain David Warner is confident his still broken left thumb won't rule him out of contention for the first Test against New Zealand.
Warner is in a race against time to prove his fitness for NSW's opening Sheffield Shield clash against South Australia from October 28-31 ahead of the first Test at the Gabba from November 5.
Selectors will decide on the squad for the first Test halfway through that match and Warner is confident of being available.
But he says the injury he suffered against England at Lord's on September 4 is taking some time to heal. 
Watch: Warner breaks thumb in England
The blow from a Steven Finn delivery resulted in a clean break near the tip of the thumb on his bottom hand, the same digit he fractured in the WACA Ground nets in early 2013.
"I saw the surgeon at the four-week mark, which was last Friday," Warner said today. "I had an x-ray and it was still broken.
"He said generally around the six-week mark - I'm coming up to five weeks at the moment - generally it would be healed.
"At this stage my goal is to try and play the first Shield game. I'll have a follow up x-ray this Friday and then if all goes well I'll be having a hit (in the nets) on Monday."
Warner's planned timeline means he will have just over a week between his return to net training and the opening day of the day-night Shield match in Adelaide.
While confident he'll be available to take on the Redbacks, Warner believed he could still perform strongly in the first Test even if he was unable to prove his fitness for the Shield clash.
But he acknowledged that should he be unavailable for the Shield round, it would be up to selectors to decide if his preparation was adequate enough to play in the first Test.
"I probably can, but I haven't spoken to selectors about that," he said.
"But my goal is to play that Shield game, I want to play that Shield game to have a hit because I don't think I'll be able to get out here and play any of the last couple of games for the Matador Cup.
"I think eight years on the road playing a lot of cricket, you don't lose that (ability) overnight.
"I think this four to six week break mentally (has) freshened me up and I think it's going to put me in good stead for the summer.
"You're only one or two hits away in the nets, an hour off getting back to what you can do. But obviously batting against bowlers is going to be the key."
Warner showed off the damaged thumb at Australia's red-ball training camp at Hurstville today, with the digit covered by a protective guard in order to prevent any further damage.
The injury will stop him from taking any active part in the two-day camp, which has been scheduled to give Australia's players some much-needed practice against the red ball ahead of the Test summer.
Warner said he was more concerned about how his injured thumb would respond to fielding again rather than how it would affect his batting.
"I'm never nervous," he said with a smile when asked if there would be any nerves before his first hit-out in the nets.
"I think it'll come down to when I have to catch a ball I'll be a little bit hesitant.
"But I've broken this before and I know exactly what I have to do. That's getting it right with the bat first and then we'll worry about the fielding and catching later."
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
About the Writer
South Africa win ODI thriller over India
12 October 2015
Proteas players celebrate with Kagiso Rabada after his match-winning final over // Getty Images
MATCH REPORT
Proteas take 1-0 series lead after nail-biting final-over victory
India v South Africa ODIs, First ODI
IND
View Scorecard
A brilliant 150 off 133 balls from Rohit Sharma was in vain as South Africa defeated India by five runs in the first one-day international in Kanpur.
In a high-scoring thriller helped by short boundaries at the packed Green Park stadium on Sunday, India made a spirited chase of the Proteas' challenging 5-303 before being stopped just short on 7-298.
Sharma nearly upstaged South African captain AB de Villiers' 104 off 73 balls before the tourists' bowlers fought back in front of 40,000 home fans.
Rohit Sharma was outstanding for India // Getty Images
Leg-spinner Imran Tahir removed Sharma and Suresh Raina in the space of five deliveries in the 47th over, before 20-year-old fast bowler Kagiso Rabada nailed his side's victory in the final over.
Quick single: Ashwin injury blow for India
With India needing 11 runs off six balls, Rabada conceded just five runs and claimed two wickets, including the important one of skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni for 31, to dash India's hopes.
The victory put South Africa ahead in the five-match series, which follows their 2-0 success in the preceding Twenty20 games.
"It was an amazing game of cricket," said a visibly tired and relieved de Villiers, who was named man of the match.
"It is close games like these that bring the fans in.
"The momentum turned around several times, but I thought Tahir turned the game on its head. Rabada, of course, proved to be a handful with his pace. He's got a bright future."
AB de Villiers scored a match-winning ton // Getty Images
India were dealt a blow when frontline spinner Ravichandran Ashwin, playing his 100th one-dayer, suffered a side strain while bowling his fourth over and left the field.
Quick single:  Spinners, experience give Pakistan edge over England
Ashwin returned to bowl only one more over before going off again. Fellow off-spinner Harbhajan Singh has been drafted into the squad as a precaution.
Dhoni said he was disappointed by the narrow loss, which he blamed on his bowlers leaking runs in the final overs.
"The outcome was not great for us," he said.
"There were plenty that went wrong, but we showed character to get close. Frankly, we should have won this game.
"We missed the six overs from Ash (Ashwin), which was crucial because he is our best spinner. But the bowlers should have done a bit better.
"The partnership between Rohit and Rahane was superb. This was a fantastic innings from Rohit. It wasn't an easy wicket to bat on but he made it look so easy."
The second one-dayer will be played in Indore on Wednesday.
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
Filed Under
Flintoff recalls best, worst Aussie sledgers
12 October 2015
Flintoff enjoyed his many battles with the Australians // Getty Images
Andrew Ramsey
 @ARamseyCricket
Legendary England allrounder describes some on-field comments as 'just wrong'
He may have won over a legion of fans in Australia as a drawcard and a commentator in the KFC Big Bash League, but ex-England allrounder Andrew Flintoff has revealed he is no fan of the aggressive on-field verbal approach often adopted by his Ashes rivals.
Flintoff, who is currently promoting his latest book Second Innings, claims it was his imposing success in home Ashes series in 2005 and 2009 that effectively created his larger-than-life reputation but described some of the sledging initiated by Australian players as “just wrong”.
He specifically cited former captain Michael Clarke’s famous spray aimed at England’s arch provocateur James Anderson during the first Ashes Test of the 2013-14 series in Brisbane where Clarke warned his opponent to “get ready for a broken f…ng arm”.
WATCH: Clarke opens up on infamous sledge
Flintoff, who will return to Network Ten’s BBL coverage as a commentator during the coming season, claimed his on-air partner Adam Gilchrist was one of the most effective “sledgers” he encountered along with former Australia leg-spinner Shane Warne.
“I am indebted to Australians,” Flintoff said in an interview with the UK’s Daily Mail newspaper. “Doing well against them changed my life. But some of the sledging is just wrong.
“What Michael Clarke said to Jimmy Anderson? Terrible, awful.
“‘I have said things in the past that I am embarrassed by, but they are so few that I remember them.
“Don’t get me wrong, the funny ones are good.
“Warne was good at it and Gilchrist was the best.
“He never shut up but was never abusive, never personal. He just said enough to put people off.
“Glenn McGrath, bless him, was different. He used to get frustrated with himself and swear a lot.
“I loved playing the Aussies, always.”
Flintoff admitted that he had tried to verbally intimidate the late Phillip Hughes when the pair crossed paths during the 2009 Ashes series in England, which was the England allrounder’s Test farewell and the Australia opener’s first taste of Ashes cricket.
Even though Flintoff was sharing the new ball with Anderson in Hughes’s maiden Test of that tour at Lord’s, he did not have a chance to bowl at him in the first innings as the opener was dismissed in the third over.
However, in the second innings Hughes – who died almost 12 months ago after being struck in the neck while batting in a Sheffield Shield match at the SCG – evaded a couple of fiery short-pitched deliveries from Flintoff, who then followed up with a verbal volley.
“He (Hughes) came over with this massive reputation but I knew he was feisty so I bowled my first ball and followed it down,” Flintoff recalled.
“I said, ‘Hello, I’m Fred, nice to meet you. I am going to be all over you for the next six weeks’.
“Next thing, he’s almost chasing after me down the pitch, shouting at me. That was proper feisty.
“But listen to the way people speak about him and that tells you everything. A lovely lad.”
Asked to spontaneously nominate his best combined Ashes XI of the past decade, Flintoff found room for six Australians including Gilchrist, Warne and allrounder Andrew Symonds, but did not include Anderson, Clarke, Stuart Broad or controversial former teammate Kevin Pietersen.
Flintoff’s XI (Matthew Hayden, Marcus Trescothick, Ricky Ponting, Michael Vaughan, Joe Root, Symonds, Gilchrist, Ben Stokes, Warne, McGrath, Steve Harmison) would be led by Vaughan even though he admits to a close rapport with another BBL commentator, Ponting.
“I love Ricky, but he had good players (during his tenure as skipper),” Flintoff explained of Ponting who captained against Flintoff in Australia’s 2006-07 Ashes whitewash triumph in Australia.
“Vaughany got the best out of me because he just let me be.”
Flintoff, who writes about his struggles with depression and alcohol in the latest book, also opted to include 2015 Ashes hero Stokes rather than himself in an allrounder’s role.
“I wouldn’t get in ahead of Ben Stokes,” he said. “I will be 12th man. I will organise the drinks. No alcohol, though. Just green tea.”
Flintoff also revealed details of the occasion he was run-out during a Test match due to the apparent after-effects of taking three Viagra tablets the previous evening, which he claimed severely impacted his capacity to move freely.
“It started with an article my ex sold to the News of the World (newspaper),” Flintoff recounted. “It wasn’t very complimentary about my ‘performance’, if you get my meaning.
“So I decided I had to put that myth to bed even though I was in the middle of a Test match.
“I took three Viagra one night and didn’t realise how long they lasted. Trying to bat the next day in that state was not easy.
“I was run out, simply because I couldn’t move. I could only hop. It wasn’t worth it, either. Complete waste of time.”
Quick Single: Bumper red-ball camp squad announced
Flintoff has included the anecdote in his one-man stage show that has been touring the UK in recent months but a check of his Test records show he was only dismissed ‘run-out’ once in his Test career, during a match against Sri Lanka at his home ground Old Trafford in 2002.
On that occasion, he was caught out of his ground when a firmly struck straight drive from his patting partner Alec Stewart was deflected on to the stumps at the non-striker’s end by Sri Lankan bowler Chaminda Vaas.
Given the England pair had completed an all-run three in Vaas’s previous over but Flintoff had managed just a single at the time of his dismissal, there is no hard evidence to corroborate the allrounder’s recollection.
Other than newspaper reports filed on the day that suggest, like any batsman run out in such unfortunate circumstances, that he had been the victim of ‘stiff luck’.
WATCH: Freddie impersonates Elvis in BBL|04
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
About the Writer
Today at 5:00 PM AEST
SOON
View Passes
YOUR CURRENT PASSES
Something unexpected happened and we're not able to retrieve your subscription information right now. We're really sorry. Can you try again later?
YOUR CURRENT SUBSCRIPTION
12 October 2015
VIDEO
Sit back and enjoy some of Mitchell Starc's finest work with a taste of the path of destruction he's wreaked through the Matador Cup so far
Latest Videos
Bumper red-ball camp squad announced
12 October 2015
Rested bowlers Mitchell Johnson and Josh Hazlewood will join the red-ball camp // Getty Images
Martin Smith
 @martinsmith9994
Johnson, Warner, Hazlewood and Coulter-Nile among 20 to attend red-ball training camp this week
UPDATE: Victoria fast-bowler James Pattinson will join Australia's two-day red-ball camp in Sydney starting on Tuesday ahead of next month's three-Test series against New Zealand.
It brings the number of Australians assembling at Hurstville to 20. A Cricket Australia spokesman confirmed Pattinson was already due to attend but was missing from the earlier announcement.
Pattinson went wicketless in the Commonwealth Bank Bushrangers' 36-run win over Western Australia on Monday, but has 8-106 from three matches at 13.25 to be the state's top wicket-taker in the tournament.
Pattinson played two ODIs on the Qantas Tour of the British Isles and also toured India with Australia A.
FIRST EDITION:
A huge squad of 19 Australian players will assemble in Sydney tomorrow for the first day of a two-day red-ball camp ahead of next month’s three-Test series against New Zealand.
Following the postponement of the Bangladesh tour due to security concerns, Australia’s Test players have been scattered throughout their state sides for the Matador BBQs One-Day Cup this month.
The camp at Hurstville Oval will provide them with some much-needed training against the red ball ahead of the first Test at the Gabba, starting on November 5.
Fast-bowlers Mitchell Johnson, Josh Hazlewood and Nathan Coulter-Nile as well as injured opener David Warner will join the 15-man squad picked for the Bangladesh tour for two days of centre-wicket and net practise.
Quick single: Anderson ruled out of Australia Test series
Johnson and Hazlewood had been rested from the Bangladesh tour, while injured vice-captain Warner was unavailable for selection. The uncapped Coulter-Nile picked up a hamstring injury during last month's one-day series against England and made his return to action in today's Matador Cup match in Blacktown.
Warner indicated on Sunday during his Matador Cup commentary for the Nine Network that he was aiming to return to match action in the opening round of the Sheffield Shield later this month having suffered a badly broken left thumb during the ODI tour of England. 
Warner was ruled out of Bangladesh with a broken thumb // Getty Images
Tasmanian duo James Faulkner and Andrew Fekete will only be in attendence for the first day of the camp as they will be available for selection in the Tigers' Matador Cup match against South Australia on Wednesday. There are no Matador Cup matches scheduled for Tuesday.
Selector Mark Waugh forecast last week that the anticipated returns of Warner, Johnson and Hazlewood for the NZ series would squeeze out some players selected for the Bangladesh tour .
"The squad from Bangladesh, it's going to look different for New Zealand. There is no doubt about it," Waugh said.
"Because you didn't have Warner, Hazlewood and Johnson (in the Bangladesh squad), so there's three players straight away you'd imagine would come back into the reckoning for the first Test.
"And with different conditions, you're not going to have two spinners at the Gabba in the first Test.
"There's going to be some guys picked for that tour who are probably going to get shuffled back down the order a little bit, but you can't do anything about it.
"At least their names are there, they got picked for an Australian tour, they can take comfort from the fact they're definitely in the reckoning.
"But the reality is it will be a different 12 for the first Test in Brisbane to what would have been picked in Bangladesh."
The likely absence of a second spinner for the Brisbane Test would leave NSW left-armer Steve O'Keefe on the outer, while it could also hurt the chances of off-spinning allrounder Glenn Maxwell.
Quick single: Critical Lehmann puts Maxwell on notice
The probable returns of Johnson and Hazlewood could leave fellow quicks Fekete and Faulkner – who was called in to the Bangladesh squad to replace the injured Pat Cummins – vulnerable at the selection table.
The postponement of the Bangladesh series means Australia will walk out onto the Gabba next month having not played a match of red-ball cricket for 74 days.
Players are expected to be available for the opening Shield round from October 28-31, which will be a day-night round played with a pink ball. Selectors will decide on the squad for the first Test after the second day of the Shield round.
It means that from the Matador Cup final on October 25 to the start of the Test summer 11 days later, some of the Test squad will play with the white ball, then the pink ball and then the red ball.
Quick single: Aussies face shortage of red-ball cricket
On the other hand, New Zealand will prepare for the series with a pink-ball one-day game against the Prime Minister's XI in Canberra, before two-day and four-day matches with the red ball against a CA XI.
"The disappointment obviously is that we have less red-ball opportunities due to the two Tests (being postponed)," said CA Executive General Manager of High Performance P
