At the age of 18, Sharma was called to join the Indian squad for the tour of South Africa in 2006–07 .
However, after receiving the call and organising travel arrangements, it was decided not to send him on the tour.
Ishant plays for Delhi in domestic cricket and has taken 68 wickets in 14  first-class games, Ishant toured England with the India Under-19s in 2006 and Pakistan in 2006–07.
He played three youth tests and six youth One Day Internationals for India.
This was the highest amount paid for any bowler in tournament.
Later on, he was called for the tour of England in July–August 2007.
Sharma was left out in the Boxing Day Test at Melbourne during the Border–Gavaskar Trophy as India retained their main fast bowlers, Zaheer Khan and RP Singh.
He bowled reasonably in the match, however without much luck.
Although he had little success, the management retained him for the third Test match at Perth.
On the fourth day of the match he bowled an exceptional spell to Australian captain Ricky Ponting that resulted in his wicket and helped India claim victory.
He ended the match with figures of 4/38 and named Man of the Match.
He was noted for achieving reverse swing on balls sometimes as young as eight overs, and along with senior opening bowler Zaheer Khan, troubled the touring Australians.
However, in 2009, Ishant's form slumped, and he was dropped for the second Test against Sri Lanka, replaced by Sreesanth .
Ishant provided Laxman with support during an 81-run partnership in which he contributed 31 valuable runs.
In July and August the team played four Tests in England .
India won the series 2–1.
The series is played during the height of the Australian cricket season, in the summer months of December, January and February.
The tri-series was first held in 1979–80 and was contested every season until 2007–08.
It has since been held twice, in the 2011–12 season,  and again in the 2014–15 season, prior to the World Cup .
In 2004–05 only, each team played the others only three times during the round robin Over its duration, the series has taken on several mostly commercial names:New laws limiting tobacco advertising in Australia forced the name to change after 1995–96After the 2007–08 season, the tri-series format was abandoned.
A shortened tri-series of only seven matches  was played in the 2014–15 season in the lead-up to the 2015 World Cup in Australia.
Australia failed to reach the finals on only three occasions.
West Indies, who featured in the series frequently during the 1980s, was the next most successful team, winning six tournaments.
Other international teams to win the tri-series were England .
England defeated West Indies by two runs in Sydney when, West Indies requiring three runs to win from the final ball of the match, England captain Mike Brearley pushed all of his fieldsmen, including the wicket-keeper, back to the boundary.
This was one of cricket's most controversial moments of all time.
The record stood until 1992.
This is the still currently the fastest 50 in Australian Tri-Series matches.
West Indies were the first team to go through the qualifying round unbeaten by winning all 10 matches.
This season was the first time the 4-times Tri-Series champions, West Indies did not make the finals as England beat Australia 2–0.
Mike Gatting 's side also won that season's Ashes Test match series and the Perth Challenge one day tournament.
Australian fans loudly booed this unsatisfactory conclusion, and criticism from the media led to the average run rate method being replaced by the most productive overs method for setting revised targets in interrupted matches.
These remain the most economical bowling figures in one-day international history .
Ajit Agarkar recorded bowling figures of 6/42 from 9.3 overs against Australia at the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
It was the first and, to date, only six wicket haul in an Australian Tri-series match.
His fellow players and other people mainly call him by his nickname, 'Prashu'.
Padmanabhan is an all-rounder .
He also bowls with left-arm.
However, he couldn't play any match.
A decision was made to form an all-Sinhalese club, and thus Sinhalese Sports Club was founded.
In 1952 the club leased another 20 acres  and moved to its present location in Maitland Place, which was used as an aerodrome by the allied forces in World War II .
A giant scoreboard and sightscreens were built in the mid-70s.
Later the current scoreboard was built.
There are two grass embankments for the spectators.
However Bangladesh went on to lose the match by an innings and 137 runs.
Other matches played in R. Premadasa Stadium .
This article needs additional citations for verification .
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources .
India went on to win the series 4–1.
However, he was unable to maintain his level of performance, and was dropped from the side.
In 2006 it was announced that Singh would be signing for English side Leicestershire as their second overseas signing.
Singh was included in the Test squad for the tour to England and performed well, taking 5/59 at Lord's his first five-wicket-haul in Tests.
In the one-day series he took seven wickets at 31.71 from five matches.
India won the 12-nation tournament after beating Pakistan in the final.
In his second season of the tournament, Singh was highly successful and he emerged as the highest wicket taker of the tournament, with 23 from 16 matches thereby winning the Purple Cap.
Deccan Chargers emerged as winners of the tournament.
He is also the leading all time wicket taker in Indian Premier League with 52 wickets.
He was bought for $600,000 by the Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League Players Auction, 2012.
After the England Series in 2011, he has never come back to international cricket.
I don't know why they decided to give up on their pace.
I love bowling fast, and it is my strength.
I will never compromise on my pace," he told the Indian Express.
"Speed is okay; you have to bowl quick.
After that, they adjust pretty easily," he told Reuters.
Even genuine fast bowlers have to have the right line and length."With
India struggling in the pace department in England, there were calls for Aaron, who is just 21, to be drafted into the national team, and when Ishant sustained an ankle injury, Aaron was called up to the one-day squad.
He, however, said he would not be bogged down by the pressure of expectation.
"It's tough to ignore the expectations that people have.
Working with Eric was great,
If he is inaccurate which he probably will be, trying for more pace, then he will get carted around the park like the rest of indian pie chuckers.
India needs to wipe the blackboard and start afresh.
It does'nt matter if they lose many before they start winning.It is also nice to hear that Varun Aaron is comfortable with Eric Simmons and that he  keeps his coaching to the very minimum.
That is important.
Any training is good only when one learns by oneself.I also wish he would run and do yoga .This Gym culture is what has made Indian players unfit most of the time.
We need similar reconstruction now.
Skip some marginal talent like Yuvraj, Raina for test cricket.
Only if India can find few good bowlers, things can turn around.
We need similar reconstruction now.
Skip some marginal talent like Yuvraj, Raina for test cricket.
Only if India can find few good bowlers, things can turn around.
We need similar reconstruction now.
Skip some marginal talent like Yuvraj, Raina for test cricket.
Only if India can find few good bowlers, things can turn around.
Hopefully he gets his pace going all the time along with accuracy, as accuracy can be gained later on with experience.
If he is inaccurate which he probably will be, trying for more pace, then he will get carted around the park like the rest of indian pie chuckers.
India needs to wipe the blackboard and start afresh.
It does'nt matter if they lose many before they start winning.It is also nice to hear that Varun Aaron is comfortable with Eric Simmons and that he  keeps his coaching to the very minimum.
That is important.
Any training is good only when one learns by oneself.I also wish he would run and do yoga .This Gym culture is what has made Indian players unfit most of the time.
We need similar reconstruction now.
Skip some marginal talent like Yuvraj, Raina for test cricket.
Only if India can find few good bowlers, things can turn around.
We need similar reconstruction now.
Skip some marginal talent like Yuvraj, Raina for test cricket.
Only if India can find few good bowlers, things can turn around.
We need similar reconstruction now.
Skip some marginal talent like Yuvraj, Raina for test cricket.
Only if India can find few good bowlers, things can turn around.
Hopefully he gets his pace going all the time along with accuracy, as accuracy can be gained later on with experience.
They lack self belief that an Indian rarely bowls fast.
How may fast bowling talent has been wasted in the last 70 years.
In the 90's they did not pick Abhay Kuruvilla and Salil Ankola in the right time.
Our attitude to fast bowling is line and length and not pace.
What about Umesh Yadav who too bowls at 140 Kmph and above.
Our selection is always conservative and lacks confidence in development of fast bowlers.
This has been our major failing unlike Pakistan.
Atlast an Indian Fast bowler who could be called fast and enjoys hitting the ball on the head.
Others before him weer too meek.
I hopt he has the Poms jumping.
Lts have some chin music now.
Look at Pakistan or for that matter Malinga or WI team of 70's.
They do not have much favourable conditions for fast bowlers but still from the top fast bowlers list you will find most of the bowlers from these countries.
This would not be right ot say Varon cannot trouble batsmen around the world.
He will, all he need to do is learn everytime he is playing internatinal cricket.
Fair enough to suspect Indian Pacers.
India need to pick an allrounder such as Irfan Pathan to lessen the workload on the fast bowlers.
Those who are talking against him don't obviously know what they are talking about.
Its on record how he groomed first Aqib Javed  and then helped Waqar Younis, Shoaib Akram and inspired many others like Aamir, Sami, etc to bowl quick.
Prasad also did well at coaching bowlers.
All is not lost for India.
With its population, and craze for cricket, they can produce top bowlers easily.
Follow what Pakistan does for fast bowlers.
Bowling is different from Batting.
They can do the job best when young.
India is now trying to do what Australia has been hopelessly doing for the past year or so.
There was similar talk about pace when Munaf Patel came on the scene.
It was said that Munaf had Steve Waugh jumping in the nets.
How fast Munaf bowls is for everyone out there to see.
Not sure if Aaron is the one .
Would have been better to keep him back for this series and instead take him to Australia.
I think selectors should stick with these four guys.
Who knows indian Pace battery could become like westindies of 80s.
After all this time India's ideas on fast bowling are muddled.
Give chance to those who are really capable of putting it.
I don't have much hope for pace bowling from India.
Kapil was an aberration and needs to be much admired in hindsight.
India is more likely if at all of producing  more Gavaskars and Tendulkars in future than Kapil Devs.
I suspect there are other good fast bowlers in somewhere in India.
India needs these sort who can rev and give back.
Also there are Abid Nabi and Samiullah Beigh from Punjab area.
This talent needs to be harnessed and worked on.
I was waiting for him..
He made it for the selection..
He does not have any wickets to show even in the Ranji trophy, how do we expect him to succeed at the highest level.
He is widely regarded as one of the world's most influential cricketers.
Sangakkara is described as one of the "most polished and prudent of batsmen" in cricket.
He was the youngest person and the first active international player to deliver Crowdrey lecture, which was widely praised by the cricketing community for its outspoken nature.
He is also joint fastest to 10,000.
He has also won the LG People's Choice Award twice, in 2011 and 2012.
He was selected as Leading Cricketer in the World in the 2015 edition of Wisden .
He was named the Wisden Leading Cricketer in the World in 2011 and 2015.
His parents hid Tamil families during the Black July riots in 1983.
He represented his school's under-13 cricket XI under coach Upananda Jayasundera.
Sanga was the Senior Prefect  of school, he did his Advanced Level examination in the Arts stream in 1996.
He is obviously an inspiration.
Sri Lanka won the match and in his side's only innings Sangakarra batted at the fall of the third wicket and scored 23 runs before he was dismissed leg before wicket by spin bowler Nicky Boje .
He scored his first double-century against Pakistan in 2002, at the 2nd Asian Test Championship final.
When Sri Lanka toured Bangladesh in February 2006 regular captain Marvan Atapattu was injured and Mahela Jayawardene became captain while Sangakkara was made vice-captain.
During Sri Lanka's tour to England in May 2006, he was named the vice-captain of the side.
Sangakkara suffered shrapnel wounds in his shoulder.
In February 2009, the then captain of the Sri Lankan side, Mahela Jayawardene announced that he would step down from captaincy "in the best interests of the Sri Lankan team".
He said he believed that it would give his successor around two years to build up to the 2011 Cricket World Cup .
This was Sri Lanka's first ever series victory in Australia.
A month in advance of the 2011 World Cup in March, Sangakkara decided that he would resign the captaincy after the tournament.
Sangakkara filled-in while Dilshan was off the pitch and formally assumed the captaincy for the final Test.
Sangakkara was named the man of the series in Test series with Pakistan in 2011/12 —his first man of the series award in Test cricket.
Sangakkara struggled when England toured Sri Lanka in 2012.
Sri Lanka later won the Test match.
He followed this up with 192 in the game, again missing out on the double century.
Sri Lanka drew the next two matches meaning Sri Lanka won the series 1–0.
On the Sri Lankan tour of Bangladesh in 2014, Sangakarra hit his highest test score to date with 319 in the first innings of the second test.
The two also hold the record for the highest partnership for any wicket in Test matches, scoring 624 runs for the 3rd wicket against South Africa in July, 2006.
Sri Lanka went on to win the game and the tournament.
Afterwards Jayawardene also followed him into retirement.
He also became the second most prolific half-century maker in One-day internationals during this match.
He was caught on 33 in his last innings in home soil.
On 14 February 2015, Sangakkara became the second highest run scorer in One-Day International history, by surpassing Australian Ricky Ponting .
He said that Sangakarra was disillusioned by some of the actions of the Sri Lanka Cricket Board in the past, and now that attempts have been made to change personnel and practices, Sangakkara should reconsider his decision.
Sangakkara did not gave an answer to the statement.
On 27 June 2015, Sangakkara officially announced his retirement from Test cricket as well.
He retired from Test cricket after the second Test match against India .
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation recognized Sangakkara as the "Player of the Century" citing many of Sangakkara's past memories and achievements.
Several momentous were given for the behalf of his cricket career and Gavaskar invited him to former cricketer's club.
He also won the award for Outstanding Contribution to Sport at the 5th Asian Awards, which were held in London on 17 April 2015.
Sangakkara has played English county cricket with Warwickshire in the 2007 County Championship .
Winning bids for him in 2008 and 2011 were US$700,000 by Kings XI Punjab and US$300,000 by Deccan Chargers respectively.
He was the captain of the Sunrisers Hyderabad team.
In the Sri Lanka Premier League which officially started in 2012, Sangakkara was named the captain and icon player of the Kandurata Warriors franchise.
Ishant Sharma" .
During his international career, Lee was recognised as one of the fastest bowlers in the world of cricket.
In each of his first two years, he averaged less than 20 with the ball, but since then has mostly achieved figures in the early 30s.
Lee finished his Test with 310 wickets, and his One Day International career with 380 wickets.
Lee featured in the Australian teams that won the 2003 and 2007 World Cups .
He announced his retirement from all forms of international cricket in January 2012, having played his first Test in 1999.
Lee was known for his pace and regularly clocked 90 mph and above.
This innings nearly won the match for Australia but the other batsman Michael Kasprowicz was caught behind by Geraint Jones and England won by just two runs.
After the memorable match, England bowlers Steve Harmison and Andrew Flintoff went over to console Lee.
His previous highest score in Tests was 62 not out which he made against the West Indies in 2000 at the Gabba .
Lee had also once again nearly surpassed his highest test score when he had made 63 not out, but unfortunately Ricky Ponting had declared the innings in the 2nd test against the West Indies.
Lee started playing in the junior teams of his local side, Oak Flats Rats, and gradually worked his way up the ranks.
In March 1994, he was forced out of the Australian under-19 team to tour India due to stress fractures in his lower back and it forced him to remodel his bowling action to minimise the impact on his back.
Prior to making his first-class debut, Lee played for Mosman in the final of the 1996–97 Sydney Grade Cricket competition.
Lee was first named in the New South Wales Blues squad as the twelfth man for the 14–16 November match against Queensland in the 1997–98 Sheffield Shield .
During the final he played an important part with both bat and ball and was named Man of the Match.
Following his retirement from Test cricket, Lee stopped playing first-class cricket to concentrate on the limited-overs formats.
He was the Blues' highest wicket-taker in the 2010–11 Ryobi One-Day Cup with 15 wickets and had the second best economy rate of the top five wicket-takers despite missing the latter stages of the campaign due to international duty.
In June 2012 he declined to renew his contract with the Blues, ending his 15-year association with his domestic team.
He retired from Big Bash League after playing the final match for the Sydney Sixers on 28 January 2015.
By the late 1990s there were calls for Lee to be included in the national squad.
He was eventually chosen in the final 14 for the Test series against Pakistan in 1999 but failed to make the starting 11.
By the time the Test series against India came around, he was twelfth man .
Lee took thirteen wickets in his opening two Tests at the low average of 14.15.
Lee won the inaugural Donald Bradman Young Player of the Year Award at the Allan Border Medal award ceremony in 2000 soon after his debut.
Lee took 42 wickets in his opening three series, the most by any Australian bowler in the seven matches he played.
Lee returned to the international team for the 2001 Ashes series after recovering from an elbow injury.
His comeback saw less success than his debut, managing only nine wickets in five Tests at 55.11.
He finished the series with 14 wickets at 25.14.
The two home and away series against South Africa were not as productive, yielding 19 wickets in six Tests at 38.42.
Lee came under pressure for his position after taking only five wickets at 46.50 in the three-Test series against Pakistan in 2002.
It was the first series in two years where he averaged under 30, and only the second in that period where had averaged under 40.
He took six wickets at 31.66, and was Australia's most expensive bowler, with the other specialist bowlers averaging 15.55 against the lowest ranked team in Test cricket.
Loss of Test position Lee took eight wickets in 100 overs in the final two Tests against India, at an average of 59.50.
He ended the series with the worst average and economy rate of Australia's front line bowlers.
He was subsequently replaced by fellow fast bowler Michael Kasprowicz in 2004 during the tour of Sri Lanka when Lee's ankle injury worsened, forcing him to return home to have surgery.
This injury would force Lee out of the game for 4½ months to ensure his full recovery.
This included 17 wickets at 26.82 on the spin friendly pitches of the Indian subcontinent, helping Australia to its first whitewash in Sri Lanka, and its first series win in India for 35 years.
With Kasprowicz and Jason Gillespie both struggling for form, Lee returned to take the new ball with Glenn McGrath .
He averaged 40 with the ball for the series, which some commentators have put down to having to bowl longer spells than he was accustomed to at the time which yielded runs at an average of 26.33.
Part of Lee's difficulty at Test level is that the benefits of his high speed, which give the batsmen less reaction time, also results in more erratic bowling.
In recent times he has tried to concentrate solely on accuracy by reducing speed.
He finished the three Test series with 13 wickets and of the Australian bowlers, was second only to Shane Warne 's 14 wickets in the series.
Three Australian players including Lee, who was reprimanded in the Third Test in Sydney for showing dissent towards umpire Aleem Dar .
With the unavailability of Glenn McGrath for the tour of South Africa in March–April 2006, Lee became the spearhead of the Australian bowling line-up.
In his first series as bowling spearhead reaped 16 wickets at an average of 17.5.
This was achieved by bowling 5 km/h slower to improve accuracy.
In the following series Lee took 24 wickets at 22.58 in four Tests against India.
In this series he overtook Jason Gillespie to become Australia's 5th highest wicket taker.
The fracture broke completely during the second innings of the Boxing Day Test-match and he was forced to return home for surgery.
By the time he returned to the Australian team for the Ashes in 2009, his position as spearhead had been usurped by the left armer Mitchell Johnson .
Lee was the only bowler to get reverse swing in this match and appeared to be in line for selection for the First Test at Cardiff.
Lee had been considering retiring from Test cricket for some time since 2008 due to the physical strain.
His bowling strike rate of around 30 puts him amongst the most incisive in this form of the game.
Lee was the first Australian and fourth bowler to ever achieve this feat in World Cup history.
Lee finished the series with 15 wickets, the third highest tally behind Nathan Bracken and Muttiah Muralitharan .
He was left out of the test side during the Ashes but was in the one-day side for the NatWest Series in September.
Despite competition from younger bowlers and another injury setback, Lee managed to make the squad for the 2011 Cricket World Cup .
He finished the tournament with 13 wickets, the highest of all the bowlers in the team.
During the match against Ireland he opened the bowling and bowled William Porterfield and Ed Joyce in only his first three deliveries.
Lee made his Twenty20 and T20 International debut on 15 February 2005 against New Zealand in the first ever T20 international match.
He reached the milestone in his 55th match.
As of June 2013, he and Zaheer Khan are the only Test cricketers with 300 or more wickets but only 10  5-wicket hauls in test innings.
After announcing his retirement from international cricket, Lee joined the Channel Nine cricket commentating team, reuniting with former Australia and New South Wales teammate Michael Slater .
He also provides support for Slater on The Cricket Show .
Lee married Elizabeth Kemp in June 2006.
Lee plays the bass guitar or acoustic guitar for the band.
In November 2011, Lee launched his autobiography, which he wrote with the help of author James Knight.
He is currently not sponsored by any cricket equipment manufacturer.
Owing to Lee's popularity in India, Sangakkara is married to his longtime partner, Yehali.
While the cut and the pull are natural strokes to him, he tends to play off the front foot.
The cover drive is one of his regular scoring shots.
In an interview in 2004 he explained his approach to sledging:The public perception of sledging is to go out there and abuse someone in obscene language, questioning their parentage or sexual preferences.
That kind of abuse does not belong on the field of play.
He is second in the list.
First Sri Lankan to pass 14,000 runs.
He is second in the list.
When considering total runs scored in all forms of the game, Sangakkara is second only to Indian Sachin Tendulkar, where Sangakkara scored 28,016 international runs and Tendulkar has scored 34,357 international runs.
An innings-by-innings breakdown of Sangakkara's Test match batting career, showing runs scored .
Sangakkara has scored 38 centuries in Test cricket, more than any other Sri Lankan.
Kumar Sangakkara: 'There's nothing that comes close to Test cricket'
Kumara Sangakkara’s long journey to world’s leading batsman
Kumara Sangakkara expected to replace Mahela Jayawardene as Sri Lanka captain
Retrieved on 2013-12-23.
Sangakkara and Mahela bid farewell as South Africa proceed to the Semi Final
Kumara Sangakkara's plaudits for Cowdrey lecture tainted by news of Sri Lanka government's investigation
Muttiah Muralitharan was named in the original squad but injuries led to him being withdrawn.
Dilruwan Perera was sent as his replacement.
Laxman bats right-handed and occasionally bowls off-spin.
He is noted for his superb timing and the ability to hit against the spin, reminiscent of his role model Mohammed Azharuddin .
Laxman is particularly noted for the skilful use of his supple wrists, which allow him to flick the ball to various places, but usually through the leg side.
Laxman was born in Hyderabad in Telangana .
Laxman is known for his "wristy, willowy and sinuous" style, one which is technically fluid at its best.
Laxman's on-side playing capability is comparable with his fellow Hyderabadi Mohammed Azharuddin 's.
The Australians once admitted that they did not know where to bowl to him.
At the start of his career, Laxman was rated by Geoffrey Boycott as one of India's best current players of the hard  ball.
But Laxman came into his own only when he was asked to bat in the middle order.
His 281 is rated by many as the best ever innings played by an Indian batsman.
Laxman made his Under-19 debut for India against Australia in February 1994.
Laxman made his first-class debut for Hyderabad against Punjab in the quarter-final match of 1992–93 Ranji Trophy season.
Laxman returned to playing first-class cricket in 1999 to regain his place in the national team.
His performance was rewarded when, in January 2000, he was recalled in the Indian squad for the Australian tour.
Australia's tour of India Laxman's career changed dramatically in the home series against Australia .
He had scores of 69, 69*, 74, 1, 43, 130, 65* and 23 in that series.
But his form dropped during India's tour of New Zealand in 2002/03.
He won the Man of the Series award for his impressive batting performances in the two Test match series.
This was their first Test victory in Australia in two decades.
India went on to post 705/7 in their first innings which is their highest total in Test cricket.
During this series, Ian Chappell described Laxman as Very Very Special Laxman.
Decline of form However, Laxman's form was on the decline since the series against Australia.
In November 2006, he was selected in the test squad for India's tour of South Africa.
He passed the 5000 run landmark in the first day of the final test.
After the tests he joined Lancashire as their overseas player in place of Brad Hodge .
He played in five games of the county championship and showed glimpses of his sublime batting.
They just missed out by 25 runs and subsequently lost the Championship to Sussex.
This ensured his place on the tour of Australia which would be his third to that country.
Sublime form from end of 2007 till May 2011Laxman's good form continued in the 2007/08 Test series against Australia with him scoring 109 against Australia on the second day of the controversial Sydney Test to put India back into the contest.
It was his 12th hundred in Test matches, and his 5th against Australia.
He hit 51 in the first innings of the final Test at Adelaide.
He finished as the second highest run-getter for India in that series, only behind Sachin Tendulkar .
He, like all other Indian batsmen, struggled in Sri Lanka against the spin duo of Muttiah Muralitharan and Ajantha Mendis later in July–August that year.
Laxman was dismissed by Mendis on all five occasions in that series.
He also crossed the 6000-run milestone during the series.
During the third Test at the Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi, Laxman scored an unbeaten 200 in the first innings with characteristic use of his wrists and flicks through the leg side.
In the same innings, Gautam Gambhir scored 206, Laxman and Gambhir becoming the first pair of batsmen to score double-centuries in the same innings for India, and the first to do so against Australia.
This was his second double-century in Test cricket with the previous one coming against the same opponents.
He made an unbeaten 59 in the second innings and was named Man of the Match.
The match was also the last game of India's spin wizard Anil Kumble who was also the captain of the team.
In 2009, Laxman continued to be in brilliant form.
He had scored 76 and 124* in the 2nd Test at Napier in New Zealand.
Laxman scored two fifties in the next two games as India went on to win both matches by an innings.
He injured himself during the first match of the two-match Test series in Bangladesh in January 2010 after scoring another unbeaten half-century.
The injury forced him to sit out for three weeks and he returned to action only during the final Test against South Africa held in Kolkata .
The test was eventually won by India by an innings and 57 runs in the last 10 minutes of the fifth day's play, despite centuries in both innings from South African batsman Hashim Amla .
He also passed 7000 Test runs during the innings.
He was awarded the Man of the Match for this brilliant effort.
He and paceman Ishant Sharma put on 81 to take the score to 205 before Sharma fell.
Laxman ended on 73 not out.
He was ruled out of the remaining matches of the series due to his injury.
In November, he helped India recover from 15/5 in the second innings of the first Test against New Zealand at Ahmedabad and the match was drawn.
India struggled to cope with Dale Steyn in the first innings before getting bundled out for 205.
Laxman's 38 was the highest score in that innings.
South Africa were bundled out for 215 giving India an 87-run win that helped level the series 1–1.
He was awarded the Man of the Match for his match-winning innings of 96.
In three test matches, Laxman scored three consecutive fifties including two scores in eighties against the West Indies during India's tour of West Indies in June 2011.
June 2011 to Retirement During India's Tour to England, Laxman scored just two half-centuries in eight innings as India went down 0–4 to England.
This was India's first Test series loss since the 2007/08 India Tour of Australia.
Laxman got out with the pull shot frequently in this series, which otherwise he is good at.
Laxman was adjudged Man of the match.
India went on to win the series 1–0.
Laxman again failed to live to his expectations during India's tour of Australia in November 2011, as India went down 0–4 to Australia with Laxman scoring only two half centuries in eight innings.
The Deccan Chargers bought him at the auction for $375,000 and named him the captain for the first season.
Adam Gilchrist took over as the captain and led the side in the next two seasons as well.
His only half-century of the tournament  came against Royal Challengers Bangalore .
However, he struggled with the bat in the next two seasons and sat out of the tournament after playing only 5–6 matches.
At the mega-auction in 2011, Laxman was bought by the newly formed franchise of Kochi Tuskers Kerala for $400,000.
This time, though, he was injured after the first three games and missed the rest of the season.
In the first match against Royal Challengers, he opened the innings with Brendon McCullum and scored an attractive 36 from 29 deliveries.
But, the Kochi franchise was terminated later that year and all the players of the team were put in the auction in 2012.
On 18 August 2012, Laxman announced his retirement from international cricket.
Although he was selected for the upcoming New Zealand series, he opted not to play in the series but he will play in domestic cricket for Hyderabad and the Indian Premier League .
His innings of 281 against Australia at Kolkata in 2001 was ranked sixth in Wisden 's list of 100 great Test innings in the history of the game.
He scored 1217 runs at an average of 110.63 at Eden gardens.
Already he's being hyped to the moon, and if he fails to deliver on astronomical expectations you'll blame the "system" for it, forgetting that it wasn't the system that hyped him up to be somebody he wasn't.
Already he's being hyped to the moon, and if he fails to deliver on astronomical expectations you'll blame the "system" for it, forgetting that it wasn't the system that hyped him up to be somebody he wasn't.
He does not have any wickets to show even in the Ranji trophy, how do we expect him to succeed at the highest level.
I was waiting for him..
He made it for the selection..
He made his international debut during the 2000/01 series against Zimbabwe.
He made his First-class debut against Punjab at Ludhiana in the 1993/94 season.
He was an integral part of the North Zone team which lifted the Duleep and Deodhar Trophies in 1999-2000, and also captained Delhi for some time.
He retired from all forms of cricket after playing his last match against Uttar Pradesh in December 2006.
The last of which was against Australia at Fatorda Stadium in the 2001 series.
He made his Test debut against Zimbabwe at his home ground Feroz Shah Kotla in November 2000 as the match ended in drawn.
He played only one more Test match against same opponent at Vidarbha Cricket Association Stadium .
He was named Delhi coach in 2007/08 season and was sacked 2013/14 season due his Kolkata Knight Riders commitments.
In September 2014, he was re-appointed as the head coach of the Delhi 's Ranji Trophy side for 2014/15 season.
He made his first-class debut for Natal in 1997 before moving to England, after voicing his displeasure at the racial quota system in place in South Africa.
Early and personal life Pietersen was born to an English mother, Penny, and an Afrikaner father, Jannie.
He did not at this stage contemplate forsaking his nation; nor had it yet occurred to him that the decision would eventually have to be taken.
Kevin Pietersen published his autobiography: Kevin Pietersen: Crossing the Boundary in early 2007.
He arrived at the hospital just in time for the birth.
This really is the most amazing experience of my life.
Despite the praise from the England side, Pietersen claimed he was dropped from the Natal first team.
Pietersen felt that this was due to the country's racial quota system, in which provincial sides were required to have at least four black players.
In 2003, Pietersen scored 1,546 first-class runs, and 764 runs in limited overs cricket .
I could have done so much better if the wicket had been good."
I was told the captain had said, 'if he does not want to play for Notts he can f*** off.'
Pietersen was made to honour the last year of his contract at Nottinghamshire, but "didn't enjoy it at all".
Having an England "central contract" meant that Pietersen was only released to play for Hampshire at the discretion of the national coach.
Pietersen then joined Surrey on loan from Hampshire for the remainder of the 2010 English county cricket season.
In July 2014, he played for the Rest of the World side in the Bicentenary Celebration match at Lord's .
Pietersen is eligible to play for England as he has an English mother.
The tour of Zimbabwe caused several players to voice their concerns about the Robert Mugabe regime, the security issues in the country and the standard of the Zimbabwean side.
Success in South Africa Pietersen was upset not to be initially in the squad to tour South Africa.
My affiliation is with England.
In the drawn third Test, Pietersen had his first quiet match when he scored 21 in the first innings, getting caught on the boundary.
However, England won and went 2–1 up.
He made little impact in the first and third test.
His first Test match innings since his match winning 158 against Australia was brief as he was caught at short leg for 5.
In the second innings, he was criticised for his dismissal.
In the third test, he made 34 before edging behind in the first innings.
With England in difficulty, Pietersen edged Danish Kaneria to short leg when only on one, as England were to be defeated by an innings.
In the first innings on 15, another rash shot brought his downfall.
His 87 in the second innings of the first match came during England's acceleration period, helping push the required target over 300.
In the one-day series, which England lost 5–1, he was top scorer for England in four out of the five matches he played, and had the highest average of any player with 58.20.
Sri Lanka and Pakistan in England, 2006See also: Sri Lankan cricket team in England in 2006 and Pakistani cricket team in England in 2006In May 2006, Pietersen matched his highest Test score of 158 in the first match against Sri Lanka .
His innings was ended when he was lbw to Chaminda Vaas .
In the second innings, he made 96 before edging behind again before the test came to an unexpected early end.
England in Australia, 2006–07See also: 2006-07 Ashes series and English cricket team in Australia in 2006–07In the much-anticipated Ashes series in Australia, Pietersen was hyped up as England's best player and this was justified as he scored 490 runs in five matches and averaged over fifty, despite Australia's obvious targeting of him.
"I was interested to see how he would get on in Australia in 2006–07 on pitches with more bounce", wrote Warne, "because bowlers had tried to test him with the short ball.
He was still England's best batsman."
He started well, in the First Test.
Pietersen bowls off-spin in the Adelaide Oval nets in November 2006.
In the tour's sole Twenty20 match, Pietersen was run out on eleven as England lost by 77 runs.
He made 48 in the unconvincing win against Ireland.
Pietersen made 58 against Sri Lanka before being caught and bowled by Murali .
Pietersen crafted 104 runs off 122 balls against Australia.
It was the first World Cup century by an Englishman since 1996, and the first ever against Australia.
See also: Indian cricket team in England in 2007Pietersen played in the first Test against India and in the first innings, he made 37 but not without controversy.
He edged the ball behind of Zaheer Khan to Dhoni.
He walked, but after seeing replays on the screen, he walked back to the middle and the decision was overturned.
Ironically, he was out shortly afterwards caught Dhoni, bowled Khan.
Pietersen described this as his best century, in very testing conditions.
He scored two half-centuries in the final matches including 71 not out in the final match at Lord's, hitting the winning runs to give England the series.
Pietersen was also picked for and played in the Twenty20 Championship in South Africa.
In England's first game against Zimbabwe on 13 September, Pietersen hit 79 runs off 37 balls, his highest Twenty20 score, including seven fours and four sixes  with Owais Shah .
He also held the highest strike rate of any England batsman.
He improved slightly in the second but only making 26 in the first innings and then running himself out on 42 having looked well set.
Ian Healy seconded this by saying "It just should be outlawed straightaway.
Otherwise you are going to start to allow the bowlers to go round the wicket, over the wicket, and keep swapping during their run-ups."
"That's ridiculous, absolutely stupid.
The reverse-sweep has been part of the game for however long.
Everybody wants brand new ideas, new inventions and new shots.
There are new things happening for cricket at the moment and people shouldn't be criticising it all the time."
He also calls for the wide law to be adjusted in one-day cricket, as bowlers are penalised for most deliveries that pass down the leg side.
New Zealand won to finish theetersen was named as the stand-in captain for three further matches in August.
With Michael Vaughan as captain for the first three tests, Pietersen seemed to thrive in his first Test series against his former countrymen scoring 152 in the opening match of the series.
Jonathan Agnew and Alec Stewart called the stroke "irresponsible" and Agnew continued, suggesting that Pietersen therefore ruled himself out of the potential reckoning for the England captaincy with Vaughan 's place in the starting line-up in doubt after failing to score runs.
In January 2009, following England's losses in India, the media reported that Pietersen had asked the England and Wales Cricket Board  to hold emergency meetings to discuss Moores' coaching role with the team.
England in West Indies Pietersen's first match after resigning from the captaincy garnered much media attention, played in the Caribbean during England's tour of the West Indies under the new captain, Strauss.
His good form carried on as he scored 72 not out to give England the draw at Barbados.
In the fifth and final Test, with England needing to win, Pietersen hit his quickest test century with 102 of 92 balls.
He struggled in the one-day series that followed with his top score being 48.
Pietersen's Achilles injury began flared up ahead of England's first Twenty20 match, against the Netherlands not long after.
Pietersen joined the England Ashes squad in June 2009 for the upcoming 2009 Ashes series.
His contributions, nevertheless, were significantly below his pre-injury range with an average of just 27.
He showed several lapses of concentration, leading some to suggest that off-field distractions and lingering issues with his removal from the captaincy were still affecting his form.
Pietersen went into the two-match tour of Bangladesh on the back of poor performances on his return from injury and led to speculation Pietersen's England place was under pressure.
Pietersen joined up with his Royal Challengers Bangalore team following the conclusion to England's tour of Bangladesh .
Following the conclusion of this match, Pietersen returned home to England to be present at the birth of his son.
He made 64 in the second Test, however.
Pietersen was omitted from both of England's limited-overs squads to face Pakistan.
England then proceeded to bowl Australia out in the final morning to win by an innings and 71 runs, and Pietersen was named man-of-the-match.
England were however defeated by the chasing Australians after Shane Watson 's monumental 161 not out.
In the three remaining matches  Pietersen scored 40, 29 and 26 respectively.
Career in 2011Pietersen was part of England's 15-man squad for the 2011 World Cup hosted by Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka between February and March.
In the warm-up matches he was asked to open the batting in anticipation that he would assume the position for the whole tournament.
He had opened the batting just six times in one-day games and never for England, although had done so for England A in 2004.
He returned from injury for the home series against Sri Lanka in May 2011.
On 10 April, Pietersen started his first match in the 2012 Indian Premier League for his new team, the Delhi Daredevils .
He scored his maiden century in that format during the tournament.
He commented "Can somebody please tell me how Knight has worked his way into the commentary box for Tests?
On 31 May 2012, Pietersen announced his retirement from one-day international cricket.
In the same press conference, he also mentioned issues within the dressing room that needed to be resolved.
In the following days, allegations were made that he sent defamatory text messages to members of the South African dressing room, with Strauss and Flower said to be referred to within the messages.
This led to Pietersen's selection as part of the Test squad later that month.
Pietersen featured in the three-Test series in New Zealand in February 2013, scoring 73 in the second match.
A knee injury forced him to miss the return home series in May that year, however, and prompted fears over fitness for the upcoming 2013 Ashes series.
His return Ashes tour over the winter of 2013–14 was less successful, however.
He remained nevertheless England's leading run scorer with 294 runs.
Pietersen gained several awards for his performances in the 2005 season.
Pietersen's Test match batting career, showing runs scored  up to 30 March 2008.
" 'I was up at six.
 Pietersen looks for Essex move 
 Pietersen faces sternest test on home turf .
Upwards, kicking and screaming.
Pietersen hits 66 off 46 balls for Melbourne Stars on Big Bash debut" .
Pietersen bought by Caribbean Premier League side St Lucia Zouks" .
 Harmison opts out of Zimbabwe tour 
 Full-strength side will tour Zimbabwe 
 Flintoff and Trescothick stay at home 
" Flintoff surgery is confirmed ", Cricinfo, 25 January 2005.
 Pietersen added to England's one-day squad 
 Australia show their finest timing 
 Mahmood and Pietersen leave Sri Lanka in tatters 
 Will England rise from the Ashes for the World Cup? 
 Pakistan ride on Yousuf special 
Mewsic aims to facilitate the involvement of disadvantaged young people in music.
Mewsic has established six centres of music across India.
Brett Lee will be part of the cast of an Indo-Australian film Unindian opposite Tannishtha Chatterjee .
The film will be shot in Sydney.
Retrieved 26 June 2006^ India in Australia, 2003–04 Test Series Averages.
Cricketer Brett Lee lands starring role in India targeted film
Shaun Tait was named in the original squad but was later ruled out after elbow surgery; he was replaced by Ben Hilfenhaus.
Michael Hussey and Nathan Hauritz were replaced due to injury by Callum Ferguson and Jason Krejza respectively.
Doug Bollinger was injured and replaced by Michael Hussey .
He is regarded as one of the greatest batsmen of all time.
He is widely considered by many to be one of the best batsmen of the modern era, along with Sachin Tendulkar of India and Brian Lara of the West Indies.
His Test debut followed shortly after, when selected for the first Test of the 1995 home series against Sri Lanka in Perth, in which he scored 96.
He lost his place in the national team several times in the period before early-1999, due to lack of form and discipline, before becoming One Day International captain in early-2002 and Test captain in early-2004.
Statistically, he is one of the most successful captains of all time, with 48 victories in 77 Tests between 2004 and 31 December 2010.
On 29 November 2012 Ponting announced his retirement from Test cricket, the day before he would play in the Perth Test against South Africa.
After marrying long-time girlfriend, law student Rianna Jennifer Cantor, in June 2002, Ponting credited her as the reason for his increased maturity.
Their daughter Emmy Charlotte was born in Sydney on 26 July 2008.
Ponting's arm was so badly damaged, it had to be pinned.
Speculation ignited that Ponting was an outsider to join the Australian squad on their 1993 tour to England .
Despite Ponting's reluctance to weigh into the debate, Tasmanian coach Greg Shipperd thought he could handle the experience.
Queenslander Stuart Law captained the Australian side that included former Australian keeper Rod Marsh .
In Australia's victory in Canberra he top scored with 71 and before scoring 52 in victory in Sydney.
The last match was also successful for the home team, with Ponting not required to bat.
The century was his fifth successive against Western Australia- Sir Donald Bradman is the only other batsman to score five consecutive centuries against another state in Shield history.
Ponting made his debut against South Africa at number six in the batting order.
Australia secured another victory in their next match, this time against New Zealand in Auckland, where Ponting scored 10 not out, after coming to wicket late in the innings.
His highest series score came in the third International where Australia lost to India in Dunedin.
Ponting was promoted to number three in the batting order and responded by scoring 62 from 92 balls.
However, he had kept wicket in pre-season matches and during centre wicket practice.
Tasmania toured Zimbabwe for five games ahead of the 1995/96 Sheffield Shield.
When Ponting reached 96, Chaminda Vaas hit Ponting high on his thigh and was given out leg before wicket.
However, Ponting's performance was overshadowed by Australian umpire Darrell Hair no-balling Muralitharan for throwing on seven occasions, increasing tensions between the two teams.
Though Ponting's appearances for Tasmania continued to be limited, he was still able to top the 1995/96 season averages with 59.50.
A Tamil Tiger bombing in Colombo coupled with death threats to some members of the team forced Australia to forfeit their scheduled 1996 Cricket World Cup match against Sri Lanka in Colombo.
Despite the political environment being more assured than during the World Cup, Australia still struggled to defeat the Sri Lankans, now full of confidence.
Australia overpowered Zimbabwe, before going down the home side.
They regrouped and defeated India; however, Sri Lanka defeated Australia once again, this time in the final.
Ponting continued in the role for the series against the West Indies in 1996–97 in Australia.
He was not selected for the first three Tests; England won the first, Australia the third, and the second was drawn.
Michael Bevan was eventually dropped for Ponting, due to poor form and troubles against the short ball.
Ponting came into the Test series with first-class scores of 53, 37 and 155 behind him.
Several days after the match, Ponting was thrown out of Equinox night club in Kolkata .
The Indian media reported that Ponting was misbehaving with several women in the nightclub.
Ponting was fined $1000 by Australian team management for the incident, and later apologised to staff.
When we arrived at the nightclub this same guy spoke to the doorman.
I didn't realise we were the only single guys there.
Ponting scored 16 his only innings as Australia won by eight wickets.
He finished the series with 105 runs at 21.00 as the hosts took the Tests 2–1.
In consecutive tournaments in India and Sharjah following the Tests, Ponting scored 467 runs at 51.88.
On the subsequent tour of Pakistan less than six months later, Ponting was dropped in favour of Darren Lehmann .
The match saw Mark Taylor equal Don Bradman 's Australian record score of 334, when he declared Australia's innings overnight on 4/599, despite being not out.
Ponting was replaced by Lehmann for the final Test.
He finished the series with 215 runs at 107.50.
When the Australians returned for the home series against England, Ponting was "in the worst run-scoring groove in his first-class career."
Australia started their 1999 World Cup campaign in England with success against minnows Scotland, before defeats by Pakistan and New Zealand.
He ended the tournament with 354 runs at 39.33.
Ponting was one of Australia's few effective players during the tour and was Man-of-the-Series, ending with 253 runs at 84.33.
Australia won the series 3–0 Ahead of the first Test of the 2000–01 season in November, Ponting found form while playing for Tasmania.
The innings included 37 boundaries and four sixes, and was so dominant, the next highest score for the innings was 61.
He was dismissed all five times by Harbhajan.
The opening Test in Brisbane, saw the tourists came within 11 runs of victory, before the Test was drawn; partly to do with inclement weather.
The result of the Third Test in Perth was no different, with Ponting scoring 31 and 26.
He ended the Test season 366 runs at 52.28.
Ponting was elevated to the captaincy, ahead of then vice-captain Adam Gilchrist .
Ponting was prominent in the 3–0 whitewash of Pakistan on neutral territory in late-2002.
He struck 141 in the First Test in Colombo and 150 in the Third Test in Sharjah to end with 342 runs at 85.50.
Ashes victory and first World Cup success as captain England toured for the 2002–03 Australian season, and Ponting struck 123 in the First Test in Brisbane.
His form continued with 154 in the Second Test in Adelaide, meaning that he had scored four centuries in five Tests.
Winning the finals series against England 2–0.
Australia hit trouble on the personnel front in the lead up to the World Cup.
The selectors granted Ponting his wish, although the decision was considered highly controversial, especially with Waugh campaigning for his recall as an all-rounder.
With Bevan and Lehmann still sidelined, Australia went into their opening match with little choice over their line-up, and Symonds having to play.
However, Symonds repaid Ponting's faith with an unbeaten 140 after Australia lost three quick wickets to be in early trouble.
Australia beat Pakistan, and gained further momentum by defeating India by nine wickets in less than half their allotted overs in the next match.
Ponting himself performed solidly with 53 against Pakistan and 24 not out, hitting the winning runs to guide Australia home.
He failed in the rest of the Super Six stage and the semi-final against the same opposition  125 runs.
Ponting was announced as long-term vice-captain in place of Adam Gilchrist for Australia's away series in the Caribbean starting in April 2003.
Ponting then scored 10 and 59 as Australia recorded comfortable innings victories in their inaugural series against Bangladesh, played in Darwin and Cairns in the tropical north of Australia in the winter of 2003.
Australia played New Zealand in match three of series in Faridabad .
An early 9 am start saw New Zealand bowled out for 97, despite Australia bowling 17 wides.
Australia comfortably reached the target, losing only two wickets in the process; one of which was Ponting for 12, who felt that he was "in terrible form.". Main article: Indian cricket team in Australia in 2003–04After making 54 and 50 in the rain-drawn First Test in Brisbane, Ponting scored double-centuries in back-to-back Tests against India, in the Second Test at Adelaide .
Harbhajan had been sent home after the First Test with an injury to his spinning finger.
After Steve Waugh 's retirement at the beginning of 2004 following the drawn home series against India, Ponting assumed the Test captaincy.
A leader must earn respect and lead from the front, and on both of these counts Punter has undoubtedly excelled.
Steve Waugh writing about Ponting replacing him as Australian captain After Steve Waugh 's  retirement at the beginning of 2004 following the drawn home series against India, Ponting assumed the Test captaincy.
However, this backfired and Symonds was dropped after two Tests.
Individually though, Ponting struggled, especially in comparison to his efforts in 1999.
He scored 198 runs at 33.00, his only effort beyond 30 being 92 in the first innings of the Third Test at the Sinhalese Sports Club ground in Colombo.
Australia hosted Sri Lanka for two Tests during the winter, in the tropical north.
They were knocked out by hosts England in the semifinals in 2004.
After missing most of the tour of India due to injury, Ponting returned for the Fourth Test.
By this time, Australia had taken an unassailable 2–0 series lead, his deputy Gilchrist leading the tourists to their first Test series win in India since 1969–70.
The reasoning given by the selectors was that as they intended to play only one spinner—Warne—MacGill was unlikely to play so they would not lose anything by taking some young spinners instead, in order to gain experience.
However, it was too late for MacGill to be flown in, and Hauritz played and took 5/103.
Ponting was very vocal in criticising the playing surface after the match.
They won all five Tests, defeating New Zealand 2–0 and Pakistan 3–0.
In the First Test against Pakistan in Perth, Ponting made 98 in the second innings.
Australia went on to crush the visitors by over 400 runs.
Ponting struck 62 not out in the second innings as Australia won by nine wickets in the Second Test in Melbourne, and then brought up his maiden century as captain, scoring 207 in the New Year's Test in Sydney, which ended in another convincing nine-wicket triumph.
He ended the series with 403 runs at 100.75.
Ponting ended the series in style, scoring 105 and 86 not out in the Third Test win in New Zealand.
In his first Test series in the country, he scored 293 runs at 97.66.
After the first two matches the score was 1–1.
Ponting scored 156, the first Australian century of the series, and was dismissed only four overs from the end of the day.
Also in this match Ponting bowled six overs, and took his first wicket since March 1999; Michael Vaughan caught behind by Adam Gilchrist .
Thus, the Ashes were lost for the first time in 16 years.
Twin centuries in 100th Test Main articles: 2005–06 Chappell–Hadlee Trophy and South African cricket team in Australia in 2005–06In any case, Australia were untroubled during the 2005–06 season.
They whitewashed the West Indies 3–0 before defeating South Africa 2–0 in three Tests.
It was the first time anyone had scored two centuries in their 100th Test and Ponting was named man of the match and man of the series.
He had scored 515 runs at 103.00.
Ponting and Kookaburra agreed to comply, before the series against South Africa.
Australia continued their run in South Africa even in the absence of McGrath for family reasons.
Ponting scored 103 and 116 in the Second Test in Durban, making it three Test centuries in consecutive innings at the ground.
He ended the series with 348 runs at 58.00.
The Australians moved on to their maiden Test tour of Bangladesh thereafter, and narrowly avoided an ignominious loss in the First Test at Fatullah.
He scored 52 in the Second Test as Australia won by an innings and took the series 2–0.
Despite Australia this time having the advantage of playing on its own soil, the England team that had wrested the Ashes from the Australians was expected to be highly competitive.
At the conclusion of the match, Ponting's batting average peaked at 59.99.
The 15 months they had been in English hands was the shortest period either nation had held the urn.
However, they stumbled and lost 2–0 to England in the finals.
Australia left for St Vincent, Australia's venue for its two warm-up matches against Zimbabwe and England on 28 February without Brett Lee because of ankle damage.
Ponting himself began successfully with an innings of 113 from 93 deliveries that included five sixes, as Australia were dominant in 203-run victory against Scotland.
Despite scoring just 23 in the next match against the Netherlands, Australia still amassed 358 and proceeded to win by 229 runs.
In their next match against South Africa, Australia amassed 377/6—their highest score in World Cups.
Australia comfortably qualified for the Super Eights with their first match played at the new Antigua Recreation Ground in Antigua .
Ponting stated that he was not very impressed with the outfield labelling it "ridiculously sandy".
The Australian captain was run out when on 35, with his team amassing 322 mainly thanks to 158 from Hayden.
Grenada was again the venue for Australia's final super eights match, this time against New Zealand.
With his men now firm favourites for the tournament, they again came up against South Africa in the semi-final.
South Africa, who were reeling at 27/5, ended up setting Australia 150 to win.
The pair had taken more than 1250 Test wickets between them, and the only three Test defeats that Australia had suffered under Ponting, once against India in Mumbai in 2004 and the two against England in 2005, had all occurred when one of the two were injured.
Now that both had gone, critics wondered whether Australia and Ponting could maintain their success with their two main strike weapons absent.
However, the series against India was much harder-fought.
Australia won the First Test easily, by 337 runs, but the matches thereafter were more difficult.
The Second Test was closely fought and ended in Australian victory minutes before the end of play.
This saw Australia equal the world record of 16 consecutive Test wins; Ponting, was part of Steve Waugh side that set the previous record in 1999–2001.
However, the cricket was overshadowed by player conduct issues.
After the match ended the stadium erupted in cheering as the Indians walked off the field, and the Australians celebrated their record-equalling win.
In the early part of the Test series against India, Ponting continued to struggle against Harbhajan, falling to him three consecutive times in the first two Tests.
On the third occasion, Ponting was again caught at bat pad, from the first ball that Harbhajan bowled to him, prompting the bowler to celebrate raucously.
Harbhajan missed the Third Test and upon his return in the fourth Test, Ponting broke through for his first Test century against India in matches involving Harbhajan, scoring 140.
The Adelaide Test aside, Ponting had an otherwise unproductive season, scoring 268 runs at 38.28.
Australia won two of their three round robin matches against the Indians, but the tables were turned in the finals, which the tourists won 2–0.
Main article: Australian cricket team in the West Indies in 2008The tour of the West Indies was the first overseas Test series for Australia in 25 months, and the first for Ponting's new look bowling attack.
He acknowledged that he was keen to rectify his poor Test batting record in India.
This meant that he was not able to use pace spearhead Brett Lee significantly.
Ponting amassed 87 in Australia's first innings score of 577.
In the meantime, captain MS Dhoni and Harbhajan both added half centuries.
When the fast bowlers were reintroduced, the last four wickets fell quickly.
This left Australia chasing 382 runs for victory and they lost by 172 runs to cede the series 2–0.
In the first innings, Ponting became Harbhajan's 300th Test wicket and the Australian captain ended the series with 264 runs at 37.71.
While below his career standards, it was substantially better than his previous Test efforts in India.
Australia were largely untroubled by New Zealand, sweeping both Tests.
Ponting scored only 100 runs at 33.33.
His persistent problems with the over rate prompted some commentators to criticise him for spending too much time during the match conferring with bowlers.
Ponting's inexperienced attack had trouble dismissing the opposition batsmen, and South Africa made 4/414, the second highest successful runchase in history to win by six wickets on the final day.
However, he again exceeded 1,000 runs in the calendar year.
Ponting totalled 285 runs at 47.50 for the series.
With the retirement of experienced opening batsman Matthew Hayden—who was replaced by the uncapped 20-year-old Phillip Hughes —the Australian team that toured South Africa in February, March and April 2009 was its most inexperienced since the defections to World Series Cricket .
This was further compounded by the loss of Andrew Symonds to injury, who was replaced by the uncapped Marcus North .
The bowling attack also required major changes, due to the injuries to Brett Lee and Stuart Clark .
Subsequently, paceman Mitchell Johnson was the only bowler with more than four Tests heading into the series.
Ponting was praised for cobbling together an unexpected win, as South Africa were thought to be stronger on home soil.
He scored eighties in the first two Tests, ending with 210 runs at 35.00.
Ponting could only manage two and 38, as Australia were defeated in the second Test at Lords —their first Test defeat at the venue since 1934.
The match was eventually drawn, partly due to poor weather.
You can tell by the way the team respond to him that his leadership skills are among the finest.
Australia went onto lose the series 2–1 and Ponting became only the third Australian captain to lose the Ashes twice.
Instances of these were the first three Tests in India, the omission of Krejza for the First Test against New Zealand immediately after taking 12 wickets on debut, and opting for no spinner in the first two Tests in South Africa.
He was succeeded as Australian Twenty20 captain by team vice-captain Michael Clarke .
In the opening match, Ponting top-scored for Australia with 74 from 85 balls, as his team narrowly escaped defeat.
Main article: Pakistani cricket team in Australia in 2009–10Ponting scored the first ever double-century  in the Third Test against Pakistan.
Leading West Indian batsmen Chris Gayle and Shivnarine Chanderpaul returned for the opening Test of the 2009–10 Australian cricket season starting on 26 November in Brisbane, after the industrial dispute was resolved.
Ponting scored 55 in an Australian innings victory,  However, former Australian Test opening batsman Justin Langer labelled Hogg's comments as "rubbish", something that was backed by Katich.
In the first innings of the Third and final Test, Ponting was immediately greeted with short pitched bowling.
After battling through obvious discomfort, Ponting eventually retired hurt on 23 from 25 balls—the only time he had taken such action in his international career.
He fell for only 11 in the second innings, and when Australia lost their eighth wicket, they were only just over 50 ahead.
After being dropped on zero, Ponting scored his fifth double-century in the Third and final Test in Hobart.
Australia entered the 2010–11 Ashes series hoping to regain The Ashes from England on home soil as they had four years previously.
The First Test in Brisbane was drawn after both sides posted large batting totals.
Ponting was caught behind for 10 in the first innings and 51 not out in the second.
World Cup and resignation as captain Ponting retained the captaincy of Australia for the 2011 World Cup in India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.
Australia qualified for the quarter-finals, although Ponting failed to find form, scoring 102 runs in five innings during the group stage of the tournament.
In 2011, Ponting was inducted into Australian Institute of Sport  'Best of the Best'.
Tasmania and Surrey After retiring from test cricket, Ponting played out the Sheffield Shield season with eventual champions Tasmania .
He was the competition's leading run scorer with 911 runs at an average of 75.91.
He signed on to play for the English County side Surrey during June–July 2013.
At the formal opening of the Bellerive Oval redevelopment in January 2015, it was announced that the new Western Stand would be named the Ricky Ponting Stand in his honour.
Approach to cricket Ponting is an aggressive competitor, as manifested in his on-field conduct.
According to former Australian captain Allan Border, what you see with Ponting is what you get, and "he wears his heart on his sleeve".
Border also noted that Ponting has an abundance of determination, courage and skill.
However, his competitive attitudes can be overly aggressive, pushing the boundaries of cricket etiquette.
However, he is sometimes technically questioned for shuffling across his stumps and being trapped leg before wicket, and thrusting his bat away from his body—especially early in his innings.
Despite being widely renowned as the best player of the hook and pull shots in the world, Ponting is equally adept on both the front and back foot.
Nevertheless, during the latter stages of his career, the hook and pull shots have often been the cause of his dismissal; though, he has vowed to continue to play them.
He has been perceived to have trouble against quality spin, especially against Indian off spinner Harbhajan Singh, who has dismissed Ponting on 13 occasions in International cricket, as of August 2010.
Instead, he looks to use his feet to come down the wicket, or play off the back foot through the off-side.
Whether it's in the fielding practice, the nets, the way he holds himself off the field—every time he speaks, these young guys just listen, they hang on every word he says.""Ponting
His autobiography, Ponting: At the Close of Play, was published and released in November 2013.
Retrieved on 2013-12-23.
Ponting's 10,000 Test runs just the half of it
Ponting out of top ten batsmen for first time since 2002" .
Rodney Hogg calls for Katich to take over as captain
Ponting off to hospital as Test heats up
Ricky forced to retire to hyperbaric chamber
Coach Mickey Arthur backs Ricky Ponting amid renewed calls to sack former skipper
Aussies take charge against India in Adelaide.
In the same match,Ponting and Captain Clarke combined to emass the highest ever partnership at the Adelaide Oval and 4th highest in Australia.
Despite scoring 281 runs for the match  the man of the match was awarded to Peter Siddle for his match figures of 6/96." .
Retrieved on 2013-12-23.
Ponting and Boon make eternal stand at Blundstone Arena" .
Langer backs Ponting as captain
Katich backs Ponting and says criticism of his captaincy is unjustified
Doug Bollinger was injured and replaced by Michael Hussey .
Shaun Tait was named in the original squad but was later ruled out after elbow surgery; he was replaced by Ben Hilfenhaus.
He is the current captain of New Zealand in all three forms of the international game.
He played for the Kolkata Knight Riders from 2008-2010 and again from 2012-2013, while in between he played for the Kochi Tuskers Kerala .
Both Brendon and Nathan attended King's High School .
McCullum is the leading career scorer in Twenty20 International cricket and is the first and so far only player to have scored two Twenty20 International centuries and 2000 runs in T20 Internationals.
When he got to 135, he scored the highest individual runs for an Otago Volts player.
McCullum played for Glamorgan in 2006 and he scored 160 opening the batting against Leicestershire in the County Championship.
This was an exercise to allow him to be eligible to play for them in the Twenty20 Champions League.
This sparked criticism however despite opinion States are permitted to have one overseas player in their squad.
McCullum also donated his match fee from the game to Otago Junior Cricket.
McCullum reached his 50 off 32 deliveries and his century off 65 deliveries.
His maiden Test century came several months later when he scored 143 against Bangladesh .
On 31 December 2007 he scored 50 from just 19 balls against Bangladesh.
On 18 April 2008, he achieved the highest Twenty20 individual score in an innings.
Englishman Graham Napier .
He returned to the Knight Riders in 2012.
He was given the role of opening the innings along with West Indian Dwayne Smith and the pair was considered as the most dangerous opening pair in the league's history.
Ross Taylor at first slip did the same.
This record was broken by Aaron Finch on the 29th of August against England, when he scored 156.
However McCullum still remains the only player to have scored two Twenty20 International centuries.
He also delivered brutal innings against Australia, and South Africa in the semi-final as well.
McCullum became the first New Zealand captain to lead his team to the World Cup finals, by putting the six semi-final losses in the past.
On 21 May 2015, McCullum started in his 93rd consecutive test, and batting in his preferred spot at no. 5. .
His glovework improved during his tenure as the New Zealand wicketkeeper.
The stint included the entire domestic 2006 Twenty20 Cup.
He can also execute reverse sweep well.
During the Twenty20 World Championship in 2009, the wicketkeeping duties was given to Peter McGlashan .
He was seen practicing his medium bowling.
In the 2015 Queen's Birthday Honours McCullum was appointed an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to cricket.
Saeed Anwar  he made 8824 runs at an average of 39.21.
Anwar scored two successive hundreds on three different occasions in his career.
In August 2003, he announced his retirement from International cricket.
In 1973, he shifted with his family to Canada and came back to Karachi in 1977.
Anwar was an outstanding opener in Test cricket.
Curtly Ambrose and Ian Bishop dismissed him in the first and second innings respectively.
Anwar played three Test during Pakistan's tour of Australia in 1999–2000 season, scoring 282 runs at the average of 47.00.
In the final of the 2011 World Cup, Dhoni scored 91 not out off 79 balls to take India to victory for which he was awarded the Man of the Match.
After taking up the Test captaincy in 2008, he led the team to series wins in New Zealand and West Indies, and the Border-Gavaskar Trophy in 2008, 2010 and 2013.
He announced his retirement from Tests in December 2014.
Though he had not played cricket, Dhoni impressed with his wicket-keeping skills and became the regular wicketkeeper at the Commando cricket club .
Based on his performance at club cricket, he was picked for the 1997/98 season Vinoo Mankad Trophy Under-16 Championship and he performed well.
After the retirement of Sakshi’s father from his tea growing business, their family shifted to their native place, Dehradun.
The wedding took place one day after the couple got engaged.
His wicket-keeping skills is widely praised by cricket-experts.
He is quick when comes to stumping.
He is main wicket-keeper in the team but he occasionally bowls.
In 1998 Dhoni was selected by Deval Sahay to play for the Central Coal Fields Limited  team.
Dhoni made his Ranji Trophy debut for Bihar in the 1999–2000 season as an eighteen-year-old.
In the Duleep Trophy finals, Dhoni was picked over international cricketer Deep Dasgupta to represent East Zone.

Dhoni was promoted to accelerate the scoring and ended the game with an unbeaten 183 off 145 balls, winning the game for India.
India scored 328 in 50 overs with Dhoni contributing 68 in their first match of 2006 against Pakistan .
However, the team finished poorly scoring just 43 runs in the last eight overs and lost the match due to Duckworth-Lewis method .
Two cancelled series in Sri Lanka, one due to the withdrawal of South Africa from the Unitech Cup due to security concerns Preparations for the 2007 Cricket World Cup improved as India recorded identical 3–1 victories over West Indies and Sri Lanka and Dhoni had averages in excess of 100 in both these series.
However, India unexpectedly crashed out the World Cup after losses to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka in the group stage.
He was also later adjudged the Man of the Series after the third game of the series was washed away.
Dhoni took his first wicket in international cricket on 30 September 2009.
Michael Hussey from Australia replaced him at the top spot at the beginning of 2010.
On 12 February 2012, Dhoni made an unbeaten 44 to guide India to their first win over Australia at Adelaide.
This gave Indians, their first series lost against Bangladesh.
Following his good one-day performance against Sri Lanka, Dhoni replaced Dinesh Karthik in December 2005 as the Indian Test wicket-keeper.
India toured Pakistan in January–February 2006 and Dhoni scored his maiden century in the second Test at Faisalabad .
Dhoni played his typical aggressive innings as he brought up his maiden Test hundred in just 93 balls after scoring the first fifty in just 34 deliveries.
In the Test series in South Africa later that year, Dhoni's scores of 34 and 47 were not sufficient to save the second Test against the Proteas as India lost the series 2–1, squandering the chance to build on their first ever Test victory in South Africa .
Dhoni's bruised hands ruled him out of the third Test match.
As the batsman started to walk back, captain Dravid declared the innings when confusion started as the umpires were not certain if the fielder stepped on the ropes and Dhoni stayed for the umpire's verdict.
The impasse continued for more than 15 minutes and Lara's temper was on display with finger wagging against the umpires and snatching the ball from umpire Asad Rauf .
Ultimately, Dhoni walked off and Dravid's declaration was effected but the game was delayed, and Lara's action was criticised by the commentators and former players.
Lara was summoned by the match referee to give an explanation of his actions but he was not fined.
With this feat, India soared up to the number one position in Test cricket for the first time in history.
India scored 726–9  in the third match of this series, which is their highest Test total ever.
He played his last series in the 2014–15 season in India's tour of Australia captaining India in the second and third tests; losing the second and drawing the third, trailing the series 2–0 before the Sydney Test.
He finished his last innings unbeaten making 24 runs.
India also managed to draw the Test series 1–1 in South Africa later that year.
Tendulkar mentioned that it was Dhoni's calm influence that was rubbing off on all his team-mates and described Dhoni's handling of pressure was incredible.
Dhoni leads the table with 33 Tests as captain, 15 ahead of Gerry Alexander in second place.
In March 2013, Dhoni became the most successful Indian Test captain when he eclipsed Sourav Ganguly ’s record of 21 victories from 49 Tests.
Dhoni, being captain of the Indian cricket team, has seldom faced any restrictions not to play in matches, due to slow-over rate.
Hence Virender Sehwag was named the skipper for the two matches in Cuttack and Kolkata.
India made an early exit from the tournament in the Group Stage.
Rahul Dravid captained the team in this World Cup.
In three matches India played, they managed to win only one against Bermuda while losing the rest from Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.
In their first match against Bangladesh, India was all out in just 191 in 49.3 overs.
Dhoni scored 29 off 25 Balls which includes Two 4s and One 6. India won the match by 257 runs.
India was required to win their last group match against the Lankans but they lost by 69 runs.
Chasing the target of 255, India crumbled to 185 all out in 43.3 overs.
Thus, India was out of the world cup in very first round.
The Team was heavily criticized for their performance.
Dhoni's under construction house in Ranchi was attacked by some 200 fans after the Bangladesh loss.
Under Dhoni's captaincy, India won the 2011 World Cup .
In the final against Sri Lanka, chasing 275, Dhoni promoted himself up the batting order, coming before Yuvraj Singh .
When he came to bat India needed more than six runs per over with three top order batsmen already dismissed.
Due to good strokeplay and active running between wickets, they kept up with the required run rate.
Later in the post match presentation, he admitted that he came up the order so as to counter the Muralitharan spin threat as he was very familiar with Murali's bowling, who was his team-mate in the Indian Premier League  franchise Chennai Super Kings .
Dhoni is the present captain of the Chennai Super Kings Team .
Under his captaincy, Chennai Super Kings have won two Indian Premier League titles and the 2010 Champions League Twenty20 .
Dhoni holds the record for most catches by an Indian player in an innings.
He achieved this feat by taking six catches during the first innings of the third test against New Zealand in Wellington in April 2009.
Dhoni also equalled Syed Kirmani 's record for most dismissals in an innings by an Indian wicket-keeper.
Dhoni has now been involved in 248 dismissals.
Under Dhoni's captaincy, India reached their highest test score of 726–9  during Sri Lanka's tour of India in 2009.
So India's unbeaten streak was for 14 tests, of which 11 were Dhoni's.
Dhoni holds the record of most dismissals .
Dhoni holds the world record for most stumpings  Dhoni’s 224 is the highest score by an Indian captain in Tests bettering Sachin Tendulkar’s 217 against New Zealand at Ahmedabad in 1999.
Dhoni is the most successful Indian Test captain with 24 Test victories, eclipsing Sourav Ganguly ’s record of 21 victories from 49 Tests.
Dhoni has the dubious distinction of an Indian captain with most Test defeats overseas with 11 Test losses.
The innings set the record for the most number of runs scored in boundaries  against Australia during his knock of 175.
The score of 183* equalled Ganguly's innings during the 1999 Cricket World Cup as the highest individual score against Sri Lanka, until Rohit Sharma scored 264 runs in 2014.
Dhoni has the fourth highest batting average in One Day International cricket, in the list of cricketers with more than 5,000 runs.
Among Indian batsmen who have played more than 50 matches, Dhoni has the highest average.
Incidentally, Pollock record stood for just three days as his score of 130 came in the first match of the 2007 Afro-Asia Cup while Dhoni's century came in the third and final match of the series.
Having already effected 165 dismissals .
He did it against Pakistan in December 2012.
Dhoni's interest in bikes was often discussed in media.
The film features Sushant Singh Rajput playing the role of Dhoni.
Dhoni signed with Kolkata-based celebrity management company Gameplan Sports in April 2005.
Dhoni set to tie knot on Sunday evening
" .
" .
Sri Lanka by an innings to top Test rankings" .
Diwali for Dhoni as brands queue up for him" .
Small realty cos embrace celebrities to boost sales
Throughout 2006 and into early 2007, Harbhajan's accumulation of wickets fell and his bowling average increased, and he was increasingly criticised for bowling defensively with less loop.
He appeared in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling 's Indian promotion, Ring Ka King .He was in world cup winning team of 2011 Cricket World Cup .
Following the death of his father in 2000, Harbhajan became the family head, and by 2001 had organised marriages for three of his sisters.
Harbhajan cut his bowling arm and injured his elbow when he was struck by the police.
Extensive negotiations from local officials and organisers were required to dissuade Harbhajan and captain Sourav Ganguly from leaving the area after Ganguly said that the Indian team would abandon the scheduled match against Zimbabwe .
In 2006 Harbhajan's endorsements generated controversy when he appeared without his turban in an advertisement for Royal Stag whisky .
He ended with 32 wickets at 15.15 and 96 runs at 48.00 in four matches.
In 1996–97, Harbhajan was promoted to the Punjab Under-19s and he took 15 wickets at 20.20 in three matches, although he managed only two runs with the bat.
This included match figures of 8/54 in an innings win over Jammu and Kashmir .
Harbhajan's season was interrupted when he represented India at the Under-19 World Cup in January 1998.
Despite the superior statistics of other bowlers in domestic cricket, Harbhajan was the selected for the Indian Board President's XI to play the touring Australian cricket team ahead of the Tests.
The incident in question was his altercation with Ricky Ponting after dismissing him.
Returning to India, Harbhajan started the 1998–99 domestic season well, taking 3/54 and 5/39 in an innings win over Services, before following up with 6/69 and 1/93 in the next match against Delhi, claiming his first five-wicket innings haul.
He only played in one Test during the tour, and went wicketless, conceding 72 runs.
He did not play in the Tests, with India opting to field only Anil Kumble in the team.
He went wicketless against Hyderabad, and was selected for the Board President's XI match against the touring South Africans.
He took 2/88 and 2/59 and scored 38 and 39 to prevent the hosts being bowled out and defeated, but was dropped as the second slow bowler, as Murali Kartik became Kumble's spinning partner.
However, his behaviour did not conform to requirements, and he was expelled on disciplinary grounds.
Following his run-ins with Indian cricket administrators, there was nothing to indicate that Harbhajan's chances of national selection had improved at the start of 2000–01.
During the first half of the season, still in international exile, Harbhajan continued to pick up wickets on the domestic circuit.
In five Ranji Trophy matches, he claimed 28 wickets at 13.96.
He claimed 3/29 and 3/39 against Himachal Pradesh, 2/53 and 5/88 against Jammu and Kashmir, 4/77 and 2/33 against Haryana and 5/40 against Services in the first four matches, all of which ended in innings wins for Punjab.
Harbhajan's batting, which had rarely been productive up to this point in his career, also improved.
He was unable to reproduce his Test form against Australia, managing only four wickets at an average of 59.25 and economy rate of 5.04.
Harbhajan's Test fortunes improved immediately upon the start of the 2001–02 international season in India.
Harbhajan's overseas difficulties returned during the tour of the West Indies in mid-2002.
He was the first-choice spinner and played in all matches but one, being dropped for the victory against arch-rivals Pakistan in the group phase.
His counterpart, Kumble, played in only three matches.
Harbhajan made his Test return against Australia, who were again seeking their first series win on Indian soil since 1969 in the late 2004 home series .
After taking 2/54 in the first innings, he took 6/78 in the second, including South Africa's first five batsman to help dismiss the tourists for 222.
Harbhajan's first outings under newly appointed coach Greg Chappell came at the Indian Oil Cup in Sri Lanka in August 2005.
He took five wickets at 31.40, conceding 4.02 runs per over in four matches, but was wicketless in the final, which was won by the host nation.
Harbhajan's difficulties were compounded when he earned the ire of cricket authorities by publicly attacking Chappell and defending Ganguly after the team returned to India.
Harbhajan was under pressure to perform when Sri Lanka toured India in late 2005 following his attack on Chappell and the replacement of Ganguly, who had frequently supported him during previous career difficulties, with new captain Rahul Dravid .
After the first match in Chennai was washed out by monsoonal rains, 2006 began with Harbhajan's first tour to arch-rivals Pakistan.
A return to Indian soil for the Test series against England failed to ease Harbhajan's wicket-taking difficulties.
He took 0/30 from his ten overs, but India lost the match as their batsmen collapsed and Bangladesh had no need to take risks against the bowling.
Harbhajan and Tendulkar, his batting partner at the time of the incident, denied this.
The altercation with Symonds occurred during their partnership.
The result was that the racism charge was not proved, resulting in the revocation of the three-Test ban imposed by Procter.
However, Harbhajan was found guilty of using abusive language and fined 50% of his match fee.
Following the appeal, Harbhajan played in all eight of India's round-robin matches in the Commonwealth Bank series, which also involved Sri Lanka, taking five wickets at 39.00.
In the first final in Sydney, he removed both in the space of four overs, caught from his bowling.
Australia lost the momentum and their run-rate slowed, and India went on to win the series 2–0.
Harbhajan ended with 2/38 and 1/44 from his 10 overs in the respective matches.
Harbhajan was the top wicket-taker for the match, with figures of 5/161 and 3/101.
In the Second Test in Ahmedabad, he was India's leading wicket-taker for the third consecutive innings, taking 4/135 as the home team lost by an innings.
His second innings effort helped bowl out the tourists for 121 and set up an eight-wicket win.
Harbhajan was involved in further controversy after an 2008 Indian Premier League  match between Mumbai Indians and Kings XI Punjab at Mohali in April 2008.
While the teams were shaking hands, he slapped Punjab paceman and Indian team-mate Sreesanth in the face.
He would have been eligible for selection after the first two matches of the Asia Cup, but the selectors omitted him entirely.
Harbhajan returned to international cricket for the tour of Sri Lanka in July and August.
In the First Test at Colombo, he took 2/149 as Sri Lanka amassed 600/6 declared and won by an innings.
It was his fifth ten-wicket match haul and his first outside India.
He was again India's leading wicket-taker in the Third Test defeat, with 3/104 and 1/44.
He was India's leading wicket-taker with 16 scalps at 28.12, twice as many the second most-prolific Indian.
At the start of the Indian season, Harbhajan took 2/32 and 4/31 as the Rest of India defeated Delhi in the Irani Trophy .
The series also saw the end of Harbhajan's partnership with Kumble, who missed the Second Test due to injury and then retired after suffering another wound in the next match.
He took one wicket in each of the matches, except the third match in Kanpur.
Harbhajan ended the year as the third-highest wicket-taker in the world, and the highest among Indian players.
He was named by Wisden in their selection of the Test team of the year.
He recovered in time to be recalled for the tour of New Zealand.
He took 3/27 in the opening match, and then took 2/56 from ten overs in the third game, in which both teams passed 330, helping India to wins in both matches.
Harbhajan then played the full 2009 Indian Premier League season in South Africa, taking 12 wickets at 21.33 and an economy rate of 5.81 in 13 matches.
He was one of the most economical bowlers in the competition, and took 1/9 in four overs against Punjab to win the man of the match award.
Harbhajan was part of the Indian team that attempted to defend their crown at the 2009 World Twenty20 .
However they lost all three of their matches in the Super 8s round and were eliminated.
Harbhajan took 3/30 in one of those matches against England, and ended the tournament with five wickets at 26.20 and an economy rate of 6.55.
India lost to Pakistan and the latter match was washed out.
He then took 2/14 from eight overs against the West Indies, but it was not enough to prevent India from being eliminated in the first round, despite winning the match.
After his travails in South Africa, Harbhajan started the Indian season with eight wickets at 12.87 in three Challenger Trophy one-dayers for India Blue.
In the three home Tests against Sri Lanka, Harbhajan was the highest wicket-taker with 13 scalps, but these came at an average cost of 41.00.
After taking 2/189 in the drawn First Test, he aggregated 5/152 and 6/192 as India took the next two fixtures by an innings.
During the tri-series in Bangladesh in January 2010, Harbhajan took six wickets at 24.00 in three matches.
During New Zealand's tour of India in November 2010, Harbhajan scored his maiden Test century during the First Test in Ahmedabad.
His 115, along with Laxman's 91 saved the game for India after they had collapsed to 5/15.
Harbhajan was named man of the match.
He followed on in the next test with 111* in India's 1st innings, becoming the first no.
He returned to competitive cricket to lead the Mumbai Indians to 2011 Champions League Twenty20 title, but fell out of favor with the national selectors.
He was not chosen in the home series squad against England in October and West Indies in November and December.
Mumbai Indians won their first ever championship under his captaincy, winning the Champions League by 31 runs.
Harbhajan was man of the match for his contribution.
Harbhajan was also not selected for the Australian tour and the 2012 Asia Cup in Bangladesh.
In his debut match for Essex against Gloucestershire, Harbhajan did not take any wicket on 12 July 2012, conceding 33 runs in his 12 overs.
This series will be very crucial for Harbhajan and his career.
Ricky Ponting  has been dismissed by Harbhajan ten times in Tests.
 Peerless Pietersen sets up drubbing 
 Pietersen stars in crushing win 
KP's falling out with captain Cook was the final nail in the coffin for England's enigma" .
 Flintoff named as the leading player of the year 
Ravi Bopara and Ryan Sidebottom were named in the squad but withdrew after injury.
James Anderson and Dimitri Mascarenhas were called up as replacements.
Morgan returned to the squad during the group stage when Kevin Pietersen withdrew due to injury.
Chris Tremlett replaced the injured Stuart Broad mid-way through the group stage.
Jade Dernbach replaced the injured Ajmal Shahzad for the quarter finals.
Adil Rashid replaced Michael Yardy who went home for personal reasons before the quarter final.
The population was 72,301 at the 2014 census.
The island was discovered by the Spanish, but colonized predominately by the French.
Great Britain took it over in 1763 after the Seven Years' War and gradually established English as the official language.
The island republic gained independence in 1978.
Its name is pronounced with emphasis on the third syllable, related to its former Dominique.
Dominica has been nicknamed the "Nature Isle of the Caribbean" for its unspoiled natural beauty.
There are xeric areas in some of the western coastal regions, but heavy rainfall occurs inland.
Dominica's economy depends on tourism and agriculture.
Etymology and languages The name Dominica comes from the Latin word dies Dominica for Sunday, the day on which the island was spotted by explorer Christopher Columbus .
Its pre-Columbian name by the Caribs was Wai‘tu kubuli, which means "Tall is her body".
The indigenous people of the island were the Island Caribs or Kalinago.
The island became multi-ethnic due to European colonization, which included the importation of numerous African slaves.
The French had the longest influence prior to ceding the island to the British in 1763 after losing the Seven Years' War .
The demonym or adjective is "Dominican" in English.
Before Europeans, the island was inhabited by the Kalinago people .
As European explorers and settlers entered the region, indigenous refugees from surrounding islands settled Dominica and pushed out the Spanish settlers, who found other areas easier to control and with more resources.
France colonized Dominica for several years, importing numerous African slaves to work on plantations.
Spain had little success in colonizing Dominica.
In 1632, the French Compagnie des Îles de l'Amérique claimed Dominica and other "Petite Antilles" for France, but no physical occupation took place.
Between 1642 and 1650, French missionary Raymond Breton became the first regular European visitor to the island.
In 1660, the French and English agreed that Dominica and St. Vincent should not be settled, but left to the Caribs as neutral territory.
Dominica was officially neutral for the next century.
But its natural resources attracted rival expeditions of English and French foresters, who began harvesting timber by the start of the 18th century.
Already installed in Martinique and Guadeloupe and cultivating sugar cane, the French gradually developed plantations in Dominique for coffee.
They imported so many African slaves to fill the labor demands that the population became overwhelmingly African in ethnicity.
After France lost the war in 1763, it ceded the island to Britain under the Treaty of Paris  .
French remained the official language, but Antillean Creole was spoken by most people.
French invasions in 1795 and 1805 ended in failure.
In 1835, the first three men of African descent were elected to the legislative assembly.
Many slaves from the neighboring islands of Guadeloupe and Martinique fled to Dominica.
In 1838, Dominica became the first British Caribbean colony to have an elected legislature controlled by an ethnic African majority; most of these legislators had been smallholders or merchants before the abolition of slavery.
Their economic and social views were different from the interests of the small, wealthy English planter class.
In 1865, after much agitation and tension, the colonial office replaced the elective assembly with one that had one-half of members who were elected and one-half who were appointed.
Planters allied with colonial administrators outmaneuvered the elected legislators on many occasions.
In 1871, Dominica became part of the Leeward Island Federation .
The power of the ethnic African population progressively eroded.
Crown Colony government was re-established in 1896.
All political rights were curtailed for people of color and blacks, who were the overwhelming majority of the population.
Development aid, offered as compensation for disfranchisement, resulted in negligible improvements in conditions for most ethnic Africans.
After the war, an upsurge of political consciousness throughout the Caribbean led to the formation of the Representative Government Association .
Shortly thereafter, Dominica was transferred from the Leeward Island Administration .
Thousands of Free French refugees from Martinique and Guadeloupe escaped to Dominica from the Vichy -controlled French islands and stayed in Roseau and villages.
Until 1958, Dominica was governed as part of the Windwards .
The British Crown was no longer the head of state.
In mid-1979, political discontent led to the formation of an interim government.
Chronic economic problems were compounded by the severe impact of hurricanes in 1979 and in 1980.
On 17 September 2012 Eliud Thaddeus Williams was sworn in as President, replacing Dr Nicholas Liverpool who was reportedly removed from office due to ill health.
The capital is Roseau .
The volcanic nature of the island has attracted scuba divers .
On his second voyage to the Caribbean, Dominica was the first New World country that Christopher Columbus discovered.
There are two primary population centres: Roseau .
Dominica, known as "The Nature Island of the Caribbean" due to its spectacular, lush, and varied flora and fauna, which are protected by an extensive natural park system; the most mountainous of the Lesser Antilles, its volcanic peaks are cones of lava craters and include Boiling Lake, the second-largest, thermally active lake in the world possesses the most pristine wilderness in the Caribbean.
Originally, it was protected by sheer mountains which led the European powers to build ports and agricultural settlements on other islands.
More recently, the citizens of this island have sought to preserve its spectacular natural beauty by discouraging the type of high-impact tourism which has damaged nature in most of the Caribbean.
One notable Dominican artist has risen to international acclaim.
Both birds are rare and protected, though some forest is still threatened by logging in addition to the long-standing threat of hurricanes.
The Caribbean Sea offshore of the island of Dominica is home to many cetaceans .
Dominica is especially vulnerable to hurricanes as the island is located in what is referred to as the hurricane region.
The Commonwealth of Dominica is one of the Caribbean's few republics .
In January 2008 Dominica joined the Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas .
Regulation and supervision of the financial services industry is the responsibility of the Financial Service Unit of the Commonwealth of Dominica  under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance.
The Commonwealth of Dominica is quickly becoming one of the largest banking centres in the world, and offshore services are also becoming its main source of income.
In 2008, Dominica had one of the lowest per capita gross domestic product  rates of Eastern Caribbean states.
Bananas and other agriculture dominate Dominica's economy, and nearly one-third of the labour force works in agriculture.
This sector, however, is highly vulnerable to weather conditions and to external events affecting commodity prices.
In 2007, Hurricane Dean caused significant damage to the agricultural sector as well as the country's infrastructure, especially roads.
Dominica has also had some success in increasing its manufactured exports, primarily soap.
Dominica is mostly volcanic and has few beaches; therefore, tourism has developed more slowly than on neighboring islands.
Nevertheless, Dominica's mountains, rainforests, freshwater lakes, hot springs, waterfalls, and diving spots make it an attractive eco-tourism destination.
Cruise ship stopovers have increased following the development of modern docking and waterfront facilities in Roseau, the capital.
Dominica's currency is the East Caribbean Dollar .
Dominica supposedly offers tax-free status to companies locating from abroad.
It is not known how many companies benefit from the tax-free status because of the strict confidentiality the government enforces, although it is known many Internet businesses utilise Dominica for this reason.
However, on 12 July 2012 Dominica signed an agreement with Poland to exchange tax information.
Applying for Dominica citizenship requires interacting with official Government Approved Economic Citizenship Agents.
There are two regional, and no international airports on the island.
Douglas-Charles Airport is suitable for limited use of commercial jets because of runway length.
A runway extension and service upgrade project began at Douglas-Charles Airport around 2006 and was finished in 2010.
In March 2013, airline American Eagle halted flights to the island citing high labor costs.
The neutrality of this article is disputed .
Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page .
Please do not remove this message until the dispute is resolved .
Dominica's road network runs primarily along the coastline and along river valleys.
Major roads are two-lane highways which connect the capital, Roseau, with Portsmouth .
It takes about 45 minutes to drive from Portsmouth to Roseau.
Private minibuses form the major public transport system.
These major roads were recently reconstructed with assistance from the People's Republic of China and the European Union.
Due to Tropical Storm Erika, several road surfaces aand bridges were damaged by flooding and landslides, including on the newly completed E.O.
As of October 2015, communities in the south-east of the country remain inaccessible to road traffic.
Main article: Demographics of Dominica The vast majority of Dominicans are of African descent.
As of 2014 there are more than 3,000 Caribs remaining.
They live in eight villages on the east coast of Dominica.
This special Carib Territory was granted by the British Crown in 1903.
There are also about 1,000 medical students from the United States and Canada who study at the Ross University School of Medicine in Portsmouth.
The population growth rate of Dominica is very low, due primarily to emigration to other countries.
In the early 21st century, emigrant numbers for the most popular countries are as follows: the United States .
As of March 2007, there are 22 centenarians out of the island's 70,000 inhabitants—three times the average incidence of centenarianism in developed countries.
The reasons for this are the subject of current research being undertaken at Ross University School of Medicine.
Dominica was partially integrated into the federal colony of the Leeward Islands in 1832.
Their response to the situation was to buy land on Dominica and encourage Montserrat farm labourers to relocate.
Refugees from Martinique arrived in boats to the southern villages of Dominica and some remained permanently on the island.
English is the official language of Dominica and is universally spoken and understood.
The dialect of Dominica also includes Kokoy, along with Creole —French-based patois.
Although it was historically occupied by several native tribes, the Arawaks and Carib  territory on the east coast of the island.
They elect their own chief.
This mix of cultures has produced the current culture.
Music and dance are important facets of Dominica's culture.
This paved the way for modern Creole music.
Jing ping features the accordion and is native to the island.
A year-long reunion celebration began in January 2008, marking 30 years of independence.
Signs of collectivism are evident in the small towns and villages which are spread across the island.
The famed novelist Jean Rhys was born and raised in Dominica.
The island is obliquely depicted in her best-known book, Wide Sargasso Sea .
Dominica's cuisine is similar to that of other Caribbean islands, particularly Trinidad and St Lucia.
Traditional British-influenced dishes, such as eggs, bacon and toast, are also popular, as are fried fish and plantains .
These are often prepared in stews with onions, carrots, garlic, ginger and herbs like thyme.
These are filled with dumplings, carrots and ground provisions.
Dominica boasts one of the most competitive education systems in the Caribbean and perhaps, the West.
School is mandatory up to Secondary school.
After five years the students took Internationally competitive General Certificate of Education  can be taken upon completion of two years of community college.
He is the third-highest Test wicket-taker among all Indians.
In an interview in 2001, Harbhajan stated his ambition to become an all-rounder .
The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.
Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.
However, Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here.
The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.
Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works also have disclaimers .
Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or featured article processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in any way connected with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly.
Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.
Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.
Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.
You are solely responsible for ensuring that you do not infringe someone else's personality rights.
Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.
The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law.
Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.
Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce or republish the information contained herein.
Featured content represents the best that Wikipedia can offer.
This includes the articles, pictures, and other contributions that showcase the polished result of the collaborative efforts that drive Wikipedia.
This page gives links to all of Wikipedia's featured content.
Wikipedia is written collaboratively by largely anonymous volunteers who write without pay.
Anyone with Internet access can write and make changes to Wikipedia articles, except in limited cases where editing is restricted to prevent disruption or vandalism.
The fundamental principles by which Wikipedia operates are the five pillars .
As of today, there are 4,985,952 articles in English .
Every day, hundreds of thousands of visitors from around the world collectively make tens of thousands of edits and create thousands of new articles to augment the knowledge held by the Wikipedia encyclopedia.
People of all ages, cultures and backgrounds can add or edit article prose, references, images and other media here.
What is contributed is more important than the expertise or qualifications of the contributor.
Contributions cannot damage Wikipedia because the software allows easy reversal of mistakes and many experienced editors are watching to help ensure that edits are cumulative improvements.
Unlike printed encyclopedias, Wikipedia is continually created and updated, with articles on historic events appearing within minutes, rather than months or years.
Older articles tend to be more comprehensive and balanced; newer articles may contain misinformation and/or unencyclopedic content.
Any article may contain undetected vandalism .
Awareness of this helps the reader to obtain valid information and avoid recently added misinformation .
For more details on this topic, see History of Wikipedia .
The English edition of Wikipedia has grown to 4,985,952 articles, equivalent to over 2,000 print volumes of the Encyclopædia Britannica .
Including all language editions, Wikipedia has over 34 million articles, equivalent to over 15,000 print volumes .
Nupedia had an elaborate system of peer review and required highly qualified contributors, but the writing of articles was slow.
January 15  were donated by Wales.
The domain was eventually changed to the present wikipedia.org
These were soon joined by Arabic and Hungarian .
In September,  Polish was added, and further commitment to the multilingual provision of Wikipedia was made.
Where there are disagreements on how to display facts, editors often work together to compile an article that fairly represents current expert opinion on the subject.
Many visitors come to Wikipedia to acquire knowledge, while others come to share knowledge.
At this very instant, dozens of articles are being improved, and new articles are also being created.
Another 22,000 articles are designated as good articles .
Articles can be found using the search box on the top-right side of the screen.
Wikipedia is available in languages other than English.
All of these are maintained, updated, and managed by separate communities, and often include information and articles that can be hard to find through other common sources.
Holding the mouse over the link will often show to where the link will lead.
Some articles may also have links to dictionary definitions, audio-book readings, quotations, the same article in other languages, and further information available on our sister projects .
Users should be aware that not all articles are of encyclopedic quality from the start: they may contain false or debatable information.
However, eventually, additional editors expand and contribute to articles and strive to achieve balance and comprehensive coverage.
An increasing number of articles reach this standard over time, and many already have.
Some articles contain statements which have not yet been fully cited .
Others will later be augmented with new sections.
Some information will be considered by later contributors to be insufficiently founded and, therefore, may be removed.
Wikipedia has advantages over traditional paper encyclopedias.
In addition, Wikipedia has wikilinks instead of in-line explanations and it incorporates overview summaries  with the extensive detail of full articles.
Additionally, the editorial cycle is short.
A paper encyclopedia stays the same until the next edition, whereas editors can update Wikipedia at any instant, around the clock, keeping articles abreast of the most recent events and scholarship.
This allows Wikipedia to significantly reduce regional and cultural bias found in many other publications, and makes it very difficult for any group to censor and impose bias .
A large, diverse editor base also provides access and breadth on subject matter that is otherwise inaccessible or little documented.
A large number of editors contributing at any moment also means that Wikipedia can produce encyclopedic articles and resources covering newsworthy events within hours or days of their occurrence.
It also means that like any publication, Wikipedia may reflect the cultural, age, socio-economic, and other biases of its contributors.
There is no systematic process to make sure that "obviously important" topics are written about, so Wikipedia may contain unexpected oversights and omissions.
Some topics may not be covered well, while others may be covered in great depth.
Allowing anyone to edit Wikipedia means that it is more easily vandalized or susceptible to unchecked information, which requires removal.
See Wikipedia:Administrator intervention against vandalism .
Wikipedia's open approach tremendously increases the chances that any particular factual error or misleading statement will be relatively promptly corrected.
Numerous editors at any given time are monitoring recent changes and edits to articles on their watchlist .
Wikipedia is written by open and transparent consensus—an approach that has its pros and cons.
Reaching neutrality is occasionally made harder by extreme-viewpoint contributors .
That said, articles and subject areas sometimes suffer from significant omissions, and while misinformation and vandalism are usually corrected quickly, this does not always happen.
Wikipedia is written largely by amateurs.
Those with expert credentials are given no additional weight.
Wikipedia is also not subject to any peer review for scientific, medical or engineering articles.
One advantage to having amateurs write in Wikipedia is that they have more free time on their hands so that they can make rapid changes in response to current events.
As with any source, information should be checked.
However, the consensus in Wikipedia is to put all disclaimers only as links and at the end of each article.
Some do not like the way it looks or that it calls attention to possible errors in Wikipedia.
A selection of similar disclaimers from places which are often regarded as reliable  can be read and compared at Wikipedia:Non-Wikipedia disclaimers .
Wikipedia content advisories can also be found here .
Creating an account offers many benefits .
The ease of editing Wikipedia results in many people editing.
That makes the updating of the encyclopedia very quick, almost as fast as news websites.
Page aspects facilitated include:formatting elements and most world alphabets and common symbols, Most of which have simple formats that are deliberately very easy and intuitive.
In this box, you can type in the text that you want to add, using wiki markup to format the text and add other elements like images and tables.
You should then press the button to review your contributions for any errors.
This will help others to understand the intention of your edit.
Shows the main Wikipedia article.
This tab allows users to edit the article.
Depending on the page’s susceptibility to vandalism, according to its visibility or the degree of controversy surrounding the topic, this tab may not be shown for all users.
This tab allows readers to view the editors of the article and the changes that have been made.
Wikipedia has robust version and reversion controls .
As there are many more editors intent on improving articles than not, error-ridden articles are usually corrected promptly.
Individuals often will choose to become involved in specialised tasks, such as reviewing articles at others' request, watching current edits for vandalism, watching newly created articles for quality control purposes, or similar roles.
Editors who believe they can serve the community better by taking on additional administrative responsibility may ask their peers for agreement to undertake such responsibilities.
This structure enforces meritocracy and communal standards of editorship and conduct.
A variety of software-assisted systems and automated programs help editors and administrators to watch for problematic edits and editors.
Theoretically all editors and users are treated equally with no "power structure".
Some articles are protected because of vandalism or edit-warring, and can only be edited by certain editors.
Administrators  have been approved by the community, and have access to some significant administrative tools.
There are not very many bureaucrats.
The Arbitration Committee is analogous to Wikipedia's supreme court .
They deal with disputes that remain unresolved after other attempts at dispute resolution have failed.
Members of this Committee are elected by the community and tend to be selected from among the pool of experienced admins.
Stewards are the top echelon of technical permissions.
There are very few stewards.
In most instances, however, he does not expect to be treated differently than any other editor or administrator.
These methods are well-tested and should be relied upon.
Intentional vandalism can be reported and corrected by anyone.
Unresolved disputes between editors, whether based upon behavior, editorial approach, or validity of content, can be addressed through the talk page of an article, through requesting comments from other editors or through Wikipedia's comprehensive dispute resolution process.
In addition, new users may initially find that their votes are given less weight by editors in some informal polls in order to prevent abuse of single-purpose accounts .
Nominated articles are also frequently the subject of specific focus on the neutral point of view noticeboard or in WikiProject Cleanup .
Wikipedia uses MediaWiki software, the open-source program used not only on Wikimedia projects but also on many other third-party websites.
The hardware supporting the Wikimedia projects is based on several hundred servers in various hosting centers around the world.
Full descriptions of these servers and their roles are available on this Meta-Wiki page .
Wikipedia:Reference desk —to ask for help with any questions, or in finding specific facts.
Because of the nature of Wikipedia, it is encouraged that people looking for information should try to find it themselves in the first instance.
If, however, information is found to be missing from Wikipedia, be bold and add it so others can gain.
Also available are places for submitting bug reports and feature requests .
This Wikipedia is written in English .
Started in 2001 , it currently contains 4,985,952 articles.
Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.
Pragyan Ojha  is an Indian cricketer who plays for Indian national cricket team .
He also plays for Hyderabad cricket team in domestic cricket and Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League .
Pragyan Ojha made his debut in first class cricket in 2004/05 and represented India at the under-19 level as well.
The left arm spinner is known for his ability to flight the ball.
He is the only Hyderabadi to have played in all three formats of the game for India.
Pragyan Ojha represents Hyderabad Cricket Association in domestic cricket.
He has previously played for Deccan Chargers and currently plays for Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League.
He played his first One Day International match against Bangladesh on 28 June 2008 in Karachi and ended up with figures of 2/43.
On 24 November 2009, Ojha made his Test debut in the Second Test against Sri Lanka in Kanpur, replacing Amit Mishra and gaining figures of 2/37 off 23 overs and 2/36 off of 15.3 overs in India's 100th Test win.
He then took five wickets in the Third Test in another innings win for India, taking nine wickets at 28.66 in two Tests.
Ojha became the 800th and final Test victim of Muttiah Muralitharan, the highest wicket-taker in Test history.
He was awarded Man of the Match for his outstanding and match-winning performance.
In August, 2011 he signed to play for Surrey for the final few weeks of the 2011 season.
In December,2014 Ojha was barred from bowling in competitive cricket after his action was found to be illegal.
Later on 30 January 2015 ojha cleared the test and was allowed to resume his bowling.
Pragyan Ojha tied the nuptial knot with Karabee Kailash on 16 May 2010.
The marriage was held with complete Oriya traditions, customs and rituals.
He was discharged from the hospital after check up.
Pragyan Ojha was awarded Man of the Match for his outstanding figures of 5/40 and 5/49, against West Indies which was Sachin's last and 200th test match, 14-16 Nov 2013.
He then travelled to Malaysia in February 2008 for the Under-19 World Cup.
On 21 January 2009, Boult was selected for the New Zealand squad for the one-day series against Australia at just 19 years of age.
Boult only managed to play in the warm up game against the Prime Minister's XI and went wicketless of seven overs.
However, when back in home conditions against the touring West Indies, Boult swiftly returned to his best.
In the first innings of the second test on the same venue against India, Boult made another one-handed diving right-handed catch to dismiss Ajinkya Rahane .
He makes up for his relative lack of height with deceptive pace and the ability to swing the ball both ways.
Boult's primary weapon is the inswinger to the right-hander.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, his childhood cricketing hero was Wasim Akram .
He is also known to haul in one-handed catches with either hand, both in Basin Reserve .
Boult eager to stamp his mark on the game
Some Wikipedia articles contain sound and video files Some Wikipedia articles include sound or video files, that can be played on almost all personal computers.
However, your computer must have the right software.
If your computer does not automatically play these files when you click on them, downloading and installing free software from the Internet can enable it to do so.
Sound files on Wikipedia generally use the Vorbis audio format, and video files use the Theora format, both contained in an Ogg file.
Directions on installing software >>For help making and converting video and audio into the format usable on Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Creation and usage of media files .
Three different openers for India Shikhar Dhawan  made centuries in the series.
This was fifth time in Test history.
India won the three-match series 2–1, and this was the first series win by India in Sri Lanka since 1993 .
This series win also gave India their first overseas Test series victory since the 2011 tour in the West Indies.
Ravichandran Ashwin took his 11th five-wicket haul and first against Sri Lanka.
Ashwin's bowling figures of 6/46 is the best bowling figures by an Indian against Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka.
Sri Lanka, batting first, lost wickets at regular intervals to be bowled out for 183 just before tea on Day 1. India lost two wickets early, but consolidated their position.
Sri Lanka in their second innings again started poorly.
Amit Mishra  took his 50th Test wicket when he dismissed Dhammika Prasad in the first innings.
Ravichandran Ashwin  took his third conescutive five-wicket haul in Test matches.
India brought in Murli Vijay for the injured Shikhar Dhawan and Stuart Binny for Harbhajan Singh and decided to bat first.
Sri Lanka in their second innings were bowled out for 134 runs to hand India their biggest win in Sri Lanka.
The Test marked the end of Kumar Sangakkara 's international career.
Naman Ojha  made their Test debuts.
This was 14th time that two wicketkeepers made their debuts in the same Test match.
Ishant Sharma  took his 7th five-wicket haul in Test matches.
His 5/54 are the best bowling figures by an Indian pace bowler in Sri Lanka .
He also became the 8th Indian overall and fourth Indian pace bowler to reach 200 Test wickets.
Injury to Murli Vijay meant that India had their third different opening combination of the series.
Sri Lanka had another poor start until Mathews and Perea joined forces and took Sri Lanka from 109/5 to 248.
Ashwin got the wicket of Perera after he was caught trying to reverse sweep which exposed the tail and led to India winning in the last session on the final day.
This victory marked India's 1st victory in Sri Lanka since 1993 and Kohli's 1st series victory as skipper.
Ashwin was named man of the series.
" .
Series at stake as Sri Lanka begin life after Sangakkara/Stats and Trivia
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment He is known to work hard on the field but not get the wickets he seemingly deserves.
When others around him were falling like ninepins, Ishant carried on gamely, day after day, showing the same passion for bowling in the last 20 minutes of the day as he did in the first 20.
Ishant has played 43 Tests at an average of 36.8.
It's time Indian cricket started looking at Ishant that way, expecting results from him today instead of tomorrow.
Bowling averages somehow never get as much media- and mind-space as batting averages do.
Ishant's strike rate of 64.8 is also below par.
This means he needs to bowl nearly 11 overs to get one wicket.
"Unlucky Ishant Sharma" has become his brandname in Indian cricket today.
But there is no such thing as an unlucky batsman or an unlucky bowler.
Of course, this is not the first time these aspects of Ishant's bowling have been pointed out, but it is sad to see that these two critical issues have remained largely unaddressed.
All fast bowlers will tell you that the head falling away sideways at the time of delivery kills much of the speed, especially when the ball is pitched up.
When he tries to get the ball into that full-length area, it just does not respond.
It reacts better when it's pitched shorter, which is why he feels compelled to bowl that length.
But when the ball is short you don't find the edges, the leg-befores and the bowleds, as often.
And that is what makes Ishant an "unlucky" bowler in Indian cricket.
However, there is no way Ishant is ever going to be dropped from the Indian team .
Maybe we are witnessing another positive, Kohli, now.
The only unlucky person is dhoni.
I just hate these kind of high talks from but given that opportunities which media is providing them every ex cricketer is coming with their expert comments.

Pakistan has one of the best fast bowlers currently playing for them who cant make the ball dance on dead wickets too.
Except his bowling seems to have nothing to say.
Except his bowling seems to have nothing to say.
However, there is no way Ishant is ever going to be dropped from the Indian team .
Maybe we are witnessing another positive, Kohli, now.
The only unlucky person is dhoni.
I just hate these kind of high talks from but given that opportunities which media is providing them every ex cricketer is coming with their expert comments.

Pakistan has one of the best fast bowlers currently playing for them who cant make the ball dance on dead wickets too.
Except his bowling seems to have nothing to say.
Except his bowling seems to have nothing to say.
He should be independently judged.
They can even have something like have installation ready and train juniors in batches of 10.
Praveen,vinay and irfan are like zak and can be ideal replacements for him.
He adds variety to the indian attack .
Look at south african attack for example steyn relies on pace and swing like zak but he is faser,morne morkel like ishant relies on bounce and philander has many variations and tsotsobe has raw pace like yadav with some swing.
Thank god these incredible talents were mostly left alone by their junior coaches.
For that the cricketing world shall be ever grateful to them."We should not forget it is not only the attitude but his devastating spells against top order batsmen  which brought him fame.
The article is spot on and Sanjay is right on the money.
We do not need express fast bowlers, Magrath, Kapil Dev and other bowlers were not express fast but they used to bowl good line and length, most importantly wicket taking balls.
I feel India should look and bowlers like Praveen Kumar and Vinaykumar, they are not fast as others, but they are wicket taking bowlers.

He is not taking wickets in bowling condition therefore an extra support may be ?on
Check ur career what it was.
Dead dusty tracks mean it will proudce slow bowlers only good in these conditions and death for fast bowlers.
What happens to such bowlers is that they get knocked out when someone better shows up.
Hope  the bowling coach reads this and recommends changes to Ishant.
To me, the best pundit of them all.
It is not simply that Manjrekar is not afraid to criticize  are measured and thoughtful.
One gets the feeling that Manjrekar is trying to *apply* his brain to the cause, rather than just mouth off.
According to me he played only one quality inning at barbados in 37 test matches.
I know he has not got much following in India, simply because Indians likes to read what they wish to be read.
He should not talk cricket at all, right?
Indian bowling coaches themselves may be unfit for their job.
Either the coach doesn't know much or he is not willing to teach or not capable of teaching well.
Ishant is in the team because there is simply no one who is better.
Let us know how Sanjay is wrong or right rather than questioning whether he should be commenting or not.
Can't agree more with Sanjay.
This is destroying the limited fast bowling talent that we have.
Even Prasad was better coach than him.
Totally agree with Dinker Rkn- He is india's Troy Cooley.
When he first burst onto the scene he had great success early on and was heralded as the next big thing after Wasim, Waqar and Shoaib.
I think what Sanjay is describing here would have applied to Sami as well.
I'm not really comparing  the two since they are different types of bowlers but the fact that watching them play you would think they are pretty good bowlers but their stats don't add up.
At least Ishant is still young and has time to get better so hopefully he can do something at Perth.
Or is it just impossible or too nerve wracking to talk the obvious against Dhoni?
You generally make good comments and yes you were also brave in calling out Sachin in the past.

Ishant has played as many tets as Dale Steyn !
When you look at exciting new fast bowlers in cricket today, whether it is Cummins or Pattinson from Australia or Finn from England or De Lange from SA, all of them have their boards behind them, rationing their exposure and nurturing them to become great fast bowlers.
Where is the time in India?
A bowler needs time  change their attitude radically.
You have to make the Batsmen try difficult things at the risk of giving some runs but creating chances atleast.
Make Ishant sharma bowl to his strength of off-middle line and try to take wickets.
He is trying to bowl outside off and going too wide mostly.
What he needs to do is pack off-side, mid -on  and make the batsmen play across his pads.
Keep fine-leg short which encourages batsmen to either try fine glance or hit across the line.
It is just that Ishant is not smart enough.
Contrast with all the truly great bowlers  who were at the batsmen all the time, asking questions, as they say.
If thats the case, why Walsh isn't approached for bowling coach position?on
If you have two such  bowlers, you are likely to win many matches.
In these day of batting dominance .

Only Zaheer has come anywhere close and has been particularly impressive in the last four years at about 25-26.
At this rate, Ishant would not get into any top bowling team, except perhaps Bangladesh, Zimbabwe or SL.
He rarely has Dhoni telling him to go all out with 4-5 close in fielders.
And that's what Ishant is capable of becoming once he finds that perfect length.
He does not bowl consistent line.
He does not swing either new ball or old ball much.
My advice to Ishanth's bowling is 1.
Believe me this allows you bowl pin point Yorkers.
What Ishant is lacking is no rocket-science.
He is not pitching enough to induce edges, lbws and bold outs.
Why he was not doing so was understandable for me because he has been taken apart by the batsmen in the last couple of years and has been quite expensive.
Now this is brilliance in this sentence.
Ishant might become expensive again but he has to focus on taking wickets first not leaking runs.
It comes without saying that an average of 36 after 40 matches is nothing to boast about.
However when analysing Indian fast bowlers we need to take in to account the number of matches played in India and abroad.
In Ishant's case he is neither getting wickets in India nor in favorable conditions like England/Australia.
On the previous Aus tour, Sharma was extolled for troubling Ponting, but his average on that tour was something like 75.
People still talk about it like it was something earth shattering.
On this tour, he is averaging the same, around 75.
People get childishly excited that their bowler as able to do that.
But Sharma's actual performance puts him in Madan Lal and Ghavri category, below 'mediocre'.
India may not have any great bowlers, but they could well have someone who could average 30-32.
But what have the bowling coaches been doing all these years?
Ishant has worked with Venkatesh Prasad, Wasim Akram, among others.
Have none of them made any suggestions and worked on Ishant's bowling action, line&length, etc.
The bowling coaches must be accountable!on
With lot's of misses and great looking delieveries but he was not getting wickets.
Srinath is.
His delieveries can look devastating, and can beat the batsman.
But they will not fetch wickets."
Hopefully this article will be noticed by those who matter.
I feel Morne Morkel is exactly the same type of bowler.
One of the very few recent articles which has been so direct to the point, accurate and frank in assessment as well as finishes of with useful suggestions to the young bowler.
Sanjay is undoubtedly one of the best from cricketing fraternity when it comes to cricket writing.
The fact that you titled this article as "The Truth about Ishant" reflects that this is some sort of revelation.
He has not shot out sides in any conditions, whether home or away.
Even Srinath and Venkatesh Prasad, who were not rated as the best test bowlers way back in 1996 when even you were in the team bowled consistently better than he has at any time in his career.
Just like batting requires patience and planning, so does bowling require the same and tests, and sadly limited overs cricket has ruined that aspect of our cricket also.
We need players who can perform today rather than those 'evergreen promising' players.
Last para sums up all.
He just keeps on bowling short length.
That too is wayward.
He bowls many deliveries down the log side.
He is almost as tall as Pattinson if not built.
Morne Morkel is suffering the same way as Ishant.
Ishant's fortunes reminds me of Javagal Srinath!
This gladdens the heart of cricket lovers.
Similar analysis about other aspects like fielding, taking interest of the team etc. would be wonderful.
With his height the three fourth deliveries will come right into the grey corridor of the Batsmen and will fetch up more wickets.
Indians missed the Bus when they kept bowling short to Ponting in the first test until which time, he was struggling to find form.
Ishants sideways head movement was even more obvious when he had long hair.
He still manages to get the speed though but because he is not hitting the seam enough, the ball isn't moving as much as it should.
That is something the Aussies are good at.
But that being said, these technical snags in his bowling action need to be resolved, and the best way to do it is what CA did to both Peter Siddle and Hilfenhaus, and look at the results!
He looks defeated when things are not going his way.
It is not luck that should define wickets but skill and will!
He bowled okay in Melbourne while Zaheer and Yadav bowled great.
Zaheer in fact was unlucky in the 1st innings in Melbourne.
But come Sydney, both Ishant and Yadav faltered badly and that cost us.
He also should have opened with Zaheer.
Maybe it was Dhoni's dumb idea of bouncing them which led to their bowling look bad!
He showed utter defeat on his face in Sydney.
I think India need him badly to pair up with Zaheer.
Also, he may have played 43 test matches but he's still just 23; India should stick with him and help him improve.
Ishant Sharma has not been able to get the ball back into the right hander at all, something which he effortlessly and prodigiously was able to do four years ago, nowhere as prominent as in Perth, the venue of the next test match.
The reason this started with Ishant, was that he started listening to all kinds of idiots and taking in wrong advice.
He started to try and get the outswinger going which was never his stock taking delivery.
Given the prodigious amount of inswing and cut that Ishant was able to achieve, he never needed the outswinger.
I am surprised that he has not been able to sort out the aforementioned problems of Ishant.
I think Simmons has to go.
Unlike Zaheer, he really cannot bowl outswingers at will.
Honestly, the bench strength is not looking good enough for Ishant to be dropped.
With Praveen/Varun missing due to injuries and Vinay/Mithun hardly putting in any good performances in the tour games, Ishant will continue to be the first choice pace bowler for India.
Sanjay Manjrekar is really rising slowly with his superb analysis, commentary and excellent writing.
Ishant's Great Illusion against Ponting last time was at Perth, as was Mitch Johnson's destruction of England last year.
Tall and quick but technically flawed bowlers can capitalise on the extra bounce there.
Ishant's career has several parallels to Stuart Broad's.
The difference is that Broad's early deficiencies, namely an appetite for short pitch bowling that didn't yield wickets seems to have been solved.
Yet, Ishant's need for consistency hasn't yet been overcome leading to the 'unlucky' tag that Manjrekar mentions.
Perhaps competition is the difference?
Broad is surrounded by many contenders for his position; Sharma is an automatic pick.
Glad to see someone is taking note.
It is my view that the young batting guns of India need "air cover" by way of strike bowlers.
That is why Australia and England can introduce new batsmen  and have them "grow and adapt" without being noticed and India can't because of the paucity of strike bowlers.

This is way better in folks understanding their limitations and improve.
But listening to the greats is one thing and what is being implemented on the field is the other.
I was listening to Wasim's comments the other day and he was pointing out these mistakes clearly.
You can't be unlucky for so long.
You can't be unlucky for so long.
This is way better in folks understanding their limitations and improve.
But listening to the greats is one thing and what is being implemented on the field is the other.
I was listening to Wasim's comments the other day and he was pointing out these mistakes clearly.

It is my view that the young batting guns of India need "air cover" by way of strike bowlers.
That is why Australia and England can introduce new batsmen  and have them "grow and adapt" without being noticed and India can't because of the paucity of strike bowlers.
Glad to see someone is taking note.
Ishant's career has several parallels to Stuart Broad's.
The difference is that Broad's early deficiencies, namely an appetite for short pitch bowling that didn't yield wickets seems to have been solved.
Yet, Ishant's need for consistency hasn't yet been overcome leading to the 'unlucky' tag that Manjrekar mentions.
Perhaps competition is the difference?
Broad is surrounded by many contenders for his position; Sharma is an automatic pick.
Ishant's Great Illusion against Ponting last time was at Perth, as was Mitch Johnson's destruction of England last year.
Tall and quick but technically flawed bowlers can capitalise on the extra bounce there.
Governed by the Board of Control for Cricket in India  status.
In its first fifty years of international cricket, India was one of the weaker teams, winning only 35 of the first 196 Test matches it played.
After winning the 2011 World Cup, India became only the third team after West Indies and Australia to have won the World Cup more than once,  and the first cricket team to win the World Cup at home.
India recorded their first Test victory, in their 24th match, against England at Madras  in 1952.
However, they did not win again in the remainder of the decade and lost badly to strong Australian and English sides.
They managed to draw home series against Pakistan and Australia, and another series against England.
In this same period, India also won its first series outside the subcontinent, against New Zealand in 1967–68.
This period also saw the emergence of two of India's best ever batsmen, Sunil Gavaskar and Gundappa Viswanath .
Indian pitches have had tendency to support spin and the spin quartet exploited this to create collapses in opposing batting line-ups.
These players were responsible for the back-to-back series wins in 1971 in the West Indies and in England, under the captaincy of Ajit Wadekar .
There were six fifties, the highest being 70 by Mohinder Amarnath .
The innings was the eighth instance in Test cricket where all eleven batsmen reached double figures.
In 1984, India won the Asia Cup and in 1985, won the World Championship of Cricket in Australia.
India's Test series victory in 1986 against England remained the last Test series win by India outside the subcontinent for the next 19 years.
The 1980s saw Gavaskar and Kapil Dev  at the pinnacle of their careers.
Kapil Dev later became the highest wicket-taker in Test cricket with 434 wickets.
The period was also marked by an unstable leadership, with Gavaskar and Kapil exchanging the captaincy several times.
The addition of Sachin Tendulkar and Anil Kumble to the national side in 1989 and 1990 further improved the team.
Despite this, during the 1990s, India did not win any of its 33 Tests outside the subcontinent while it won 17 out of its 30 Tests at home.
Tendulkar resigned, vowing never to captain the team again.
India maintained their unbeaten home record against Australia in Test series after defeating them in 2001.
At the end of the 2004 season, India suffered from lack of form and fitness from its older players.
Greg Chappell took over from John Wright as the coach of the Indian cricket team following the series, and his methods proved to be controversial during the beginning of his tenure.
In December 2006, India played and won its first ever Twenty20 international in South Africa, becoming the most recent Test team to play Twenty20 cricket.
However, defeats to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka saw India fail to reach the second round.
In April 2009, India secured their first Test series win in New Zealand in 41 years.
They retained the ranking by drawing series against South Africa and Sri Lanka.
In October 2010, India whitewashed Australia 2–0 in the home Test series, giving them back-to-back series wins against them.
Later that year, India managed to draw the Test series in South Africa at 1–1.
Gautam Gambhir and the skipper Dhoni led the way with 97 and 91* respectively.
India also became the first team to win the World Cup on home soil.
This series was followed by another 4–0 whitewash of India in January 2012 in Australia.
Tendulkar retired in November 2013 after his 200th Test match.
Main article: Board of Control for Cricket in India The Board of Control for Cricket in India  is the governing body for the Indian cricket team and first-class cricket in India.
The Board has been operating since 1929 and represents India at the International Cricket Council .
It is amongst the richest sporting organisations in the world.
It sold media rights for India's matches from 2006–2010 for US$612,000,000.
It manages the Indian team's sponsorships, its future tours and team selection.
The International Cricket Council determines India's upcoming matches through its future tours program.
This has sometimes led to controversy as to whether these selectors are biased towards their zones.
The current chairman of Selection Committee is Sandeep Patil .
Since colours have made their way into international cricket, the Indian cricket team has chosen blue as their primary colour and have worn one or the other shade of blue.
The blue colour of their uniform has also earned them the nickname of "Men in Blue".
The Indian team elected to wear light-blue as their primary colour and yellow as their secondary colour.
Even during the 1999 Cricket World Cup the secondary colour on the Indian cricket team's clothing has been yellow.
However, this has since been removed and replaced with the tricolour.
The vertical tricolour band has been made on both sides in comparison to just one side in previous shirt.
Helmets are coloured similarly.
There are numerous world-renowned cricket stadiums located in India.
This was between the Parsis and the Europeans in 1877.
The second and third Tests in the 1933 series were hosted at Eden Gardens and Chepauk .
India have hosted at least one official Test match .
Eden Gardens in Kolkata has hosted the most Tests, and also has the largest seating capacity of any cricket stadium in the world, being capable of holding more than 90,000 spectators.
The Bombay Gymkhana hosted the first ever Test match in India which is the only Test it has hosted to date.
It was the unofficial successor of the Brabourne Stadium, which is also located in Mumbai.
Mumbai is often considered the cricketing capital of India because of its fans and the talent it produces  and thus the stadium regularly hosts major Test matches.
In the early years of his captaincy tenure, the team was whitewashed in the West Indies, England and Australia.
However, in 1967-68, Pataudi led India on its maiden New Zealand tour, which ended in India winning the Test series 3-1.
In 1970-71, Ajit Wadekar took over the captaincy from Pataudi.
Kapil Dev also captained India's 2-0 Test series victory in England in 1986.
Vengsarkar took over the captaincy from Kapil Dev after the 1987 Cricket World Cup.
India has had six regular Test captains since Mohammad Azharuddin took charge in 1989.
India lost only three Tests at home under Ganguly and managed to draw Test series in England and Australia.
Rahul Dravid took over as Test captain in 2005.
In 2006, he led India to its first Test series victory in the West Indies in more than 30 years.
Soon after taking up the captaincy, Dhoni led the team to the inaugural World Twenty20 title.
Anil Kumble was appointed Test captain in November 2007, but retired from international cricket in November 2008 after captaining in 14 Tests.
Dhoni succeeded him as the Test captain, making him the captain in all formats.
Under the captaincy of Dhoni, the Indian team held the number one position in the Test rankings for 21 months .
However, the team performed poorly in away Tests from 2011 to 2014.
Dhoni retired from Test cricket in December 2014, and Virat Kohli was named his successor.
This lists all the players who have played for India in the past 12 months and the forms in which they have played.
Players' salaries are as follows:The Indian team that won the 1985 World Championship of Cricket was adjudged by Wisden as the 'Team of the Century'.
The highest score by an Indian is the 319 scored by Virender Sehwag in Chennai.
Sachin Tendulkar was the first batsman to score 200 runs  against Sri Lanka in Kolkata.
In tours between these two nations, cricket visas are often employed to accommodate for the tens of thousands of fans wishing to cross the border to watch cricket.
This intense fan dedication is one of the major causes of the Indian Cricket Board's  financial success.
Many Indians hold cricket very close to their hearts and losses are not received well by the Indian population.
Often, fans engage in protests regarding players if they believe that regionalism has affected selection, or because of regional partisan support for local players.
In 2005, when Sourav Ganguly was dropped due to lack of form, Ganguly's home state of West Bengal erupted in protests.
This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
For all national women's cricket teams, the female players are paid much less their male counterparts, and the women's teams do not receive as much popular support or recognition as the men's team.
India lost both the matches they have played.
The Indian women's cricket team has since picked up their form, reaching the finals in the last World Cup, but then losing to Australia .
The Women's Asia Cup of 2005–06 was won by India, who beat Sri Lanka in the final.
This category may require frequent maintenance to avoid becoming too large.
This list may not reflect recent changes .
The tour consisted of three Test matches and five One Day Internationals .
Bhuvneshwar Kumar  is an Indian international cricketer .
He plays for Uttar Pradesh in domestic cricket, and Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Indian Premier League .
An interesting observation is that Kumar's maiden wickets in each of the three formats of cricket  were all bowled .
Kumar plays for Uttar Pradesh in domestic cricket.
He has also played for Central Zone in the Duleep Trophy .
In the 2nd semi-final against North Zone, Kumar took one wicket with an economy rate of 3.03.
He was consequently awarded the Man of the match .
Kumar was included in the playing eleven of the first T20I match against Pakistan at Bengaluru following Parvinder Awana 's poor showing in the previous series against England .
He has the highest score by an Indian number 10 on debut, 38.
Kumar made his debut on 22 February 2013 against Australia during 1st test of Australia Tour to India in 2013 .
He was given the test cap by Ishant Sharma .
Champions Trophy and Tri-Series Kumar was included in the "Team of the tournament" of the 2013 Champions Trophy .
He also had his 1st five wicket haul in his test career in the first innings of the same match.
Kumar had his second five wicket haul in the next match of the same series and got his third fifty in Test in the same match.
Despite India losing the series 1-3, he was named the Indian Player of the Series.
This score of 38 is the highest by any Indian batsman coming at 10th position.
He surpassed Paras Mhambrey to achieve this feat.
He faced the most number of balls .
He was second player to do so, batting at number 9, after Peter Siddle.
He was man of the series in the tri nation series with his best figures "Bhuvneshwar Kumar becomes Man of the Series for Celkon Cup tri series" .
On his Test debut, Nehra started out well, dismissing Marvan Atapattu early but then failed to pick up any more wickets.
He was also part of the Indian team 's run at the 2003 World Cup in South Africa.
His performance in the other matches in the World Cup were also noteworthy.
However inconsistency and successive back and ankle injuries have prevented him from cementing his place in the Indian team .
He was expensive giving away 65 runs during 8.4 wicketless overs.
After this, many thought Nehra's world cup was over.
Being out of the reckoning for the national side, he continued to perform for Delhi .
The paler strip is the cricket pitch .
The two sets of three wooden stumps on the pitch are the wickets .
The two white lines are the creases .
The game is played by 120 million players in many countries, making it the world's second most popular sport.
Each turn is known as an innings .
Each batsman continues batting until he is out .
The Laws of Cricket are maintained by the International Cricket Council  with additional Standard Playing Conditions for Test matches and One Day Internationals.
Cricket is generally believed to have been first played in southern England in the 16th century.
By the end of the 18th century, it had become the national sport of England.
The expansion of the British Empire led to cricket being played overseas and by the mid-19th century the first international match was held.
A number of words have been suggested as sources for the term "cricket".
In the earliest definite reference to the sport in 1598 it is called creckett.
Cricket can definitely be traced back to Tudor times in early 16th-century England.
By the end of the century, it had become an organised activity being played for high stakes and it is believed that the first professionals appeared in the years following the Restoration in 1660.
The game underwent major development in the 18th century and became the national sport of England.
Cricket was prominent in London as early as 1707 and large crowds flocked to matches on the Artillery Ground in Finsbury.
The single wicket form of the sport attracted huge crowds and wagers to match.
Bowling evolved around 1760 when bowlers began to pitch the ball instead of rolling or skimming it towards the batsman.
New Laws introduced in the latter part of the 18th century included the three stump wicket and leg before wicket .
The 19th century saw underarm bowling replaced by first roundarm and then overarm bowling .
Both developments were controversial.
Meanwhile, the British Empire had been instrumental in spreading the game overseas and by the middle of the 19th century it had become well established in India, North America, the Caribbean, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.
In 1844, the first international cricket match took place between the United States and Canada .
Test cricket began to expand in 1888–89 when South Africa played England.
It was the determination of the England team to overcome his skill that brought about the infamous Bodyline series in 1932–33, particularly from the accurate short-pitched bowling of Harold Larwood .
The first Limited Overs International was played in 1971.
The governing International Cricket Council  saw its potential and staged the first limited overs Cricket World Cup in 1975.
One team bats, attempting to score runs, while the other bowls and fields the ball, attempting to restrict the scoring and dismiss the batsmen.
In some forms of cricket, it may also be necessary to dismiss the opposition in order to win the match, which would otherwise be drawn .
A cricket match is divided into periods called innings  are on the field at any given time.
The order of batsmen is usually announced just before the match, but it can be varied.
A coin toss is held by the team captains  just before the match starts: the winner decides whether to bat or field first.
The wicket is made of three vertical stumps supporting two small horizontal bails.
A wicket is put down if at least one bail is dislodged, or one stump is knocked down .
This means that at least one part of his body or bat is touching the ground behind the popping crease.
If his wicket is put down while the ball is live and he is out of his ground then he is dismissed, but the other batsman is safe.
A ball being bowled.
From back to front -- umpire The two batsmen take positions at opposite ends of the pitch.
One designated member of the fielding team, called the bowler, bowls the ball from one end of the pitch to the striking batsman at the other end.
The batsman at the bowling end is called the non-striker, and stands to the side of his wicket, behind his crease.
The batsman are allowed to step forward of their creases, though at some risk.
Another member of the fielding team, the wicket keeper, is positioned behind the striker's wicket.
The fielding team's other nine members stand outside the pitch, spread out across the field.
The fielding captain often strategically changes their position between balls.
There is always an umpire at each end of the pitch.
The batsman tries to prevent the ball from hitting the wicket by striking the ball with his bat.
If the bowler succeeds in putting down the wicket the batsman is dismissed and is said to be bowled out.
If it is caught by the bowler then he is caught and bowled; by the wicket keeper, caught behind.
If the batsman is successful in striking the ball and it is not caught without bouncing, then the two batsmen may try to score points  before the batsman who owns that wicket reaches his ground behind the crease.
The dismissed batsman is run out.
Batsmen will sometimes start to run, change their mind, and return to their original positions.
If the batsman hits the ball over the field boundary without the ball touching the field, the batting team scores six runs.
If the ball touches the ground and then reaches the boundary, the batting team scores four runs.
The batsmen might start running before the ball reaches the boundary, but those runs don't count.
If the batsman misses the ball they can still attempt extra runs : these are called byes.
If the striking batsman leaves his ground and misses the ball, then the wicket keeper can catch it and put down the wicket -- stumped.
If he does so he can only be dismissed by being run out.
When the batsmen have finished attempting their runs the ball is dead, and is returned to the bowler to be bowled again.
The ball becomes live when he starts his run up.
The bowler continues to bowl toward the same wicket, regardless of any switch of the batsmen's positions.
A dismissed batsman leaves the field, to be replaced by another batsman from the batting team.
The batsmen stay in place, and the new bowler bowls to the opposite wicket, so the role of striker and non-striker reverse.
The wicket keeper and the two umpires always change positions, as do many of the fielders, and play continues.
The number of innings and the number of overs per innings vary depending on the format of the match.
The match always ends when all innings have been completed.
The umpires can also call an end to the match in case of bad light or weather.
But in many cases the match ends immediately when the first team to bat has played all of its innings, and the last team to bat has more runs.
In four-innings games the last team may not even need to play its second innings: this team is said to win by an innings.
If this winning team has not completed its last innings, and still has, for example, five batsmen who are not out or have not even batted, then they are said to "win by five wickets".
If the last team to bat is losing, is all out, and has 10 fewer runs than the other team, then the winning team "wins by 10 runs".
A wicket consists of three stumps that are hammered into the ground, and topped with two bails .
Each wicket on the pitch consists of three wooden stumps placed vertically, in line with one another.
These are called the "popping"  crease, the bowling crease and two "return" creases.
The stumps are placed in line on the bowling creases and so these creases must be 22 yards .
When bowling the ball, the bowler's back foot in his "delivery stride" must land within the two return creases while at least some part of his front foot must land on or behind the popping crease.
".The importance of the popping crease to the batsman is that it marks the limit of his safe territory.
He can be dismissed stumped or run out  if the wicket is broken while he is "out of his ground.
A used red ball, Red balls are utilised in Test cricket and first-class cricket and some other forms of cricket .
The bat is made of wood .
Some batsmen wear additional padding inside their shirts and trousers such as thigh pads, arm pads, rib protectors and shoulder pads.
The scorers are directed by the hand signals of an umpire.
The scorers are required by the Laws of cricket to record all runs scored, wickets taken and overs bowled; in practice, they also note significant amounts of additional data relating to the game.
The innings  is the term used for the collective performance of the batting side.
Depending on the type of match being played, each team has one or two innings apiece.
The main aim of the bowler, supported by his fielders, is to dismiss the batsman.
A batsman when dismissed is said to be "out" and that means he must leave the field of play and be replaced by the next batsman on his team.
The last batsman, the one who has not been dismissed, is not allowed to continue alone as there must always be two batsmen "in".
This batsman is termed "not out.
In limited overs cricket, there might be two batsmen still "not out" when the last of the allotted overs has been bowled.
The bowler bowls the ball in sets of six deliveries  and each set of six balls is called an over .
This name came about because the umpire calls "Over!" when six balls have been bowled.
At this point, another bowler is deployed at the other end, and the fielding side changes ends while the batsmen do not.
The batsmen do not change ends and so the one who was non-striker is now the striker and vice versa.
The umpires also change positions so that the one who was at square leg now stands behind the wicket at the non-striker's end and vice versa.
A team consists of eleven players.
A well-balanced team usually has five or six specialist batsmen and four or five specialist bowlers.
A player who excels in both batting and bowling is known as an all-rounder .
True all-rounders are rare as most players focus on either batting or bowling skills.
Shoaib Akhtar of Pakistan holds the world record for delivering the fastest ball .
Some fast bowlers make use of the seam of the ball so that it "curves" or "swings" in flight.
The batsman has to be very wary of such deliveries as they are often "flighted" or spun so that the ball will not behave quite as he expects and he could be "trapped" into getting himself out.
In between the pacemen and the spinners are the "medium pacers" who rely on persistent accuracy to try and contain the rate of scoring and wear down the batsman's concentration.
All bowlers are classified according to their looks or style.
".During the bowling action the elbow may be held at any angle and may bend further, but may not straighten out.
One of them is the wicket-keeper aka "keeper" who operates behind the wicket being defended by the batsman on strike.
Apart from the one currently bowling, the other nine fielders are tactically deployed by the team captain in chosen positions around the field.
These positions are not fixed but they are known by specific and sometimes colourful names such as "slip", "third man", "silly mid on" and "long leg".
There are always many unprotected areas.
The substitute leaves the field when the injured player is fit to return.
English cricketer W.G. Grace "taking guard" in 1883.
His pads and bat are very similar to those used today.
The gloves have evolved somewhat.
Many modern players utilise more defensive equipment than was available to Grace, notably helmets and arm guards.
At any one time, there are two batsmen in the playing area.
One takes station at the striker's end to defend the wicket as above and to score runs if possible.
His partner, the non-striker, is at the end where the bowler is operating.
The top batting positions are usually given to the most competent batsmen in the team, and the team's bowlers – who are typically, but not always, less skilled as batsmen – typically bat last.
Substitute batsmen are not allowed.
The idea is to hit the ball to best effect with the flat surface of the bat's blade.
He can deliberately use his leg to block the ball and thereby "pad it away" but this is risky because of the leg before wicket rule.
The runner's only task was to run between the wickets instead of the incapacitated batsman, and he was required to wear and carry exactly the same equipment as the batsman.
Each completed run increments the score.
To compensate for this, hits that reach the boundary of the field are automatically awarded four runs if the ball touches the ground en route to the boundary or six runs if the ball clears the boundary without touching the ground within the boundary.
The batsmen do not need to run if the ball reaches or crosses the boundary.
Brian Lara of the West Indies holds the record for highest score in both Tests and first-class cricket.
If an odd number of runs is scored by the striker, the two batsmen have changed ends, and the one who was non-striker is now the striker.
Only the striker can score individual runs, but all runs are added to the team's total.
Additional runs can be gained by the batting team as extras  due to errors made by the fielding side.
Less common methods are "hit wicket", "hit the ball twice", "obstructed the field", "handled the ball" and "timed out" – these are almost unknown in the professional game.
If the dismissal is obvious  "how's that?" – normally reduced to howzat?
Otherwise he will shake his head and say "Not out".
Appeals are particularly loud when the circumstances of the claimed dismissal are unclear, as is always the case with lbw and often with run outs and stumpings.
Leg before wicket  when it would have gone on to hit the stumps.
This rule exists mainly to prevent the batsman from guarding his wicket with his legs instead of the bat.
To be given out lbw, the ball must not bounce outside leg stump or strike the batsmen outside the line of leg-stump.
It may bounce outside off-stump.
"Hit" does not necessarily refer to the batsman's bat.
Note that the batsman's hand or glove counts as part of the bat while the hand is holding the bat, so batsmen are frequently caught off their gloves .
If the non-striker is dismissed it is usually by being run out, but he could also be dismissed for obstructing the field, handling the ball or being timed out.
A batsman may leave the field without being dismissed.
If injured or taken ill the batsman may temporarily retire, and be replaced by the next batsman.
This is recorded as retired hurt or retired ill .
The retiring batsman is not out, and may resume the innings later.
With all other modes of dismissal, only one batsman can be dismissed per ball bowled.
In addition to this, some batsmen have been known to "walk" when they think they are out even if the umpire does not declare them out.
A scheduled game of cricket cannot be played in wet weather.
Many grounds have facilities to cover the cricket pitch  to even hover covers which form an airtight seal around the wicket.
However, most grounds do not have the facilities to cover the outfield.
This means that in the event of heavy bouts of bad weather, games may be cancelled, abandoned or suspended due to an unsafe outfield.
Another factor in cricket is the amount of light available.
Unlike those of most sports, cricket playing fields can vary significantly in size and shape.
While the dimensions of the pitch and infield are specifically regulated, the Laws of Cricket do not specify the size or shape of the field.
Pitches vary in consistency, and thus in the amount of bounce, spin, and seam movement available to the bowler.
Hard pitches are usually good to bat on because of high but even bounce.
Such pitches tend to offer help to fast bowlers throughout the match, but become better for batting as the game goes on.
While players of other outdoor sports deal with similar variations of field surface and stadium covering, the size and shape of their fields are much more standardised.
Other local factors, such as altitude and climate, can also significantly affect play.
Typically, two-innings matches have at least six hours of playing time each day.
Limited overs matches often last six hours or more.
There are usually formal intervals on each day for lunch and tea with brief informal breaks for drinks.
These will vary in length between 30 and 60 overs per side at the weekend and the ever popular 20 over format during the evenings.
Other forms of cricket, such as indoor cricket and garden cricket remain popular.
Single wicket has rarely been played since limited overs cricket began.
The men wearing black trousers are the umpires .
Teams in Test cricket, first-class cricket and club cricket wear traditional white uniforms and use red cricket balls .
Test cricket is the highest standard of first-class cricket.
Although the term "Test match" was not coined until much later, Test cricket is deemed to have begun with two matches between Australia and England in the 1876–77 Australian season .
Subsequently, eight other national teams have achieved Test status: South Africa .
Test matches that are not finished within the allotted time are drawn.
Some other bilateral series have individual trophies too: for example, the Wisden Trophy is contested by England and West Indies; the Frank Worrell Trophy by Australia and West Indies and the Border-Gavaskar Trophy between India and Australia.
See also: One Day International and Twenty20 International Sir Viv Richards of the West Indies was voted by Wisden as the greatest One Day International batsman of all time.
The concept was gradually introduced to the other major cricket countries and the first limited overs international was played in 1971.
In 1975, the first Cricket World Cup took place in England.
The Cricket World Cup is held in one day format and the last World Cup in 2011 was won by the co-hosts, India.
The next World Cup will hosted by Australia and New Zealand in 2015.
The original idea, when the concept was introduced in England in 2003, was to provide workers with an evening entertainment.
It was commercially successful and has been adopted internationally.
The inaugural Twenty20 World Championship was held in 2007 and won by India, three subsequent events have been held which were won by Pakistan, England and West Indies respectively.
The next tournament is scheduled to be held in 2014 .
After the success of Indian premier league many other domestic leagues were formed in all major cricketing nations.
Yorkshire County Cricket Club in 1895.
The team first became County Championship champions in 1893.
First-class cricket in England is played for the most part by the 18 county clubs which contest the County Championship .
The most successful club has been Yorkshire County Cricket Club with 30 official titles.
Australia established its national first-class championship in 1892–93 when the Sheffield Shield was introduced.
In Australia, the first-class teams represent the various states.
New South Wales has won the maximum number of titles with 45 to 2008.
National championship trophies to be established elsewhere included the Ranji Trophy .
Some of these competitions have been updated and renamed in recent years.
Domestic limited overs competitions began with England's Gillette Cup knockout in 1963.
Countries usually stage seasonal limited overs competitions in both knockout and league format.
In recent years, national Twenty20 competitions have been introduced, usually in knockout form though some incorporate mini-leagues.
Games are limited by either time or overs.
A less common, but more traditional, format is limiting the game by time only.
Standards of play can vary from semi-professional to occasional recreational level and club cricket is often enjoyed as much for the social element as for the competition.
An exception being 'Wandering Sides' who use other's grounds.
In these variants, the rules are often changed to make the game playable with limited resources or to render it more convenient and enjoyable for the participants.
Indoor Cricket was first invented in 1970.
It is extremely popular in the UK with national championships and multiple independent leagues.
The exact rules will vary based on the number of participants and the available space.
Another modification to increase the pace of the game is the "Tip and Run", "Tipity" Run, "Tipsy Run" or "Tippy-Go" rule, in which the batter must run when the ball touches the bat, even if it the contact is unintentional or minor.
This rule, seen only in impromptu games, speeds the match up by removing the batsman's right to block the ball.
In original English cricket, the hockey stick shape was replaced by the modern straight bat in the 1760s after bowlers began to pitch the ball instead of rolling or skimming it.
The game juxtaposes the normal summer pursuit with harsh, wintry conditions.
Rules are otherwise similar to those for the six-a-side game.
The  Test playing nations are shown in orange; the associate member nations are shown in yellow; the affiliate member nations are shown in purple.
It was founded as the Imperial Cricket Conference in 1909 by representatives from England, Australia and South Africa, renamed the International Cricket Conference in 1965, and took up its current name in 1989.
It also appoints the umpires and referees that officiate at all sanctioned Test matches, One Day International and Twenty20 Internationals.
The cricket board also selects the national squad and organises home and away tours for the national team.
In the West Indies these matters are addressed by the West Indies Cricket Board which consists of members appointed by four national boards and two multi-national boards.
West Indies cricket team does not represent one country instead an amalgamation of over 20 countries from the Caribbean .
The English Cricket team represents both England and Wales.
At the professional level, statistics for Test cricket, one-day internationals, and first-class cricket are recorded separately.
Its annual publication has continued uninterrupted to the present day, making it the longest running sports annual in history.
Prior to the popularisation of scorecards, most scoring was done by men sitting on vantage points cuttings notches on tally sticks .
The earliest known scorecards were printed in 1776 by Pratt, scorer to the Sevenoaks Vine Cricket Club, but it was many years before his invention was widely adopted.
The introduction of scoreboards revolutionised cricket by allowing spectators to keep track of the day's play.
a house on rollers with figures for telegraphing on each side
In 1881, the Melbourne Cricket Ground erected the first cricket scoreboard.
The scoreboard, located at the western end of the ground, gave the batsman's name and method of dismissal.
There have been many cricket films .
In fiction, there is English Author P. G. Wodehouse 's 1909 novel, Mike .
See also list of Cricket video games .
Constructs such as ibid.
Wikipedia's style guide for footnotes, as they are easily broken.
By the Numbers: Computer technology has deepened fans' passion with the game's statiustics.
The game is played under the rules of Twenty20 cricket.
As of 2015, there are eighteen nations with Twenty20 International status.
Wisden Cricketers' Almanack reported that "neither side took the game especially seriously", The game had initially been developed to boost the interest in domestic cricket, and to aid this the international teams were only allowed to host three T20Is each year.
Teams with T20I status The ten Test-playing nations  have permanent T20I status.
Brendon McCullum has accrued the most runs in the format, and is the only batsman to have scored more than 2,000 runs.
The highest is the 135-run win in Vijayawada in 2002.
The 146 is India's sixth-lowest score against West Indies overall and their second lowest in the West Indies.
Their lowest in the same period is 88 against Sri Lanka in Dambulla in 2008.
His highest is the 94 against Ireland in the 2011 World Cup.
It was never going to be an easy win.
Not with Praveen Kumar and Amit Mishra in the kind of form they've been in.
The two bowled six maiden overs and took five wickets between them to undo Simmons' good work.
However, another flatterer-and-deceiver forgot the deceiving part today.
Pollard played one of his more responsible international innings to pull West Indies out of trouble.
After an edgy start, Pollard showed much better discretion and cricketing sense.
Baugh reciprocated just like he had done with Russell two days ago.
That was not the first mistake Norman Malcolm made, nor was it the last.
Pollard, meanwhile, was making all the right decisions.
The big shots and the singles were mixed well.
Nor was there any urge to hit every delivery into the stands.
He went after Mishra only when he bowled flat.
He contributed 64 to the 96-run stand.
Having put India under pressure, Pollard holed out in the first over of the batting Powerplay that begun in the 44th over.
Having reached their best score of the season, West Indies were aggressive in defence.
The pitch wasn't as slow as the ones in the earlier matches, and Kemar Roach and Russell didn't bother about keeping some in the tank.
They went all out against the inexperienced top order, and Sammy was canny from the other end.
It showed as he struggled against the moving ball.
Nerves were on display too.
He almost ran himself out and was dropped off Roach before finally edging Sammy.
Parthiv Patel pulled, flicked and upper-cut well in scoring 26 of the 41 runs that came while he was at the crease.
S Badrinath was then pinged by Russell's bouncers.
There was an air of helplessness in the way he moved about the crease, trying to get out of the way, looking for the upper-cut.
Here were India facing the heat, and the fireman stoked the fire by scalping India's best batsman, Virat Kohli, in his first over and the innings' 21st.
Under pressure, Suresh Raina looked for release, but slogged Martin straight to midwicket to make it 111 for 5.  5.Yusuf Pathan soon did something similar to Simmons, but there was still one man West Indies needed to see the back of.
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources .
India went on to win the series 4–1.
However, he was unable to maintain his level of performance, and was dropped from the side.
In 2006 it was announced that Singh would be signing for English side Leicestershire as their second overseas signing.
Singh was included in the Test squad for the tour to England and performed well, taking 5/59 at Lord's his first five-wicket-haul in Tests.
In the one-day series he took seven wickets at 31.71 from five matches.
India won the 12-nation tournament after beating Pakistan in the final.
In his second season of the tournament, Singh was highly successful and he emerged as the highest wicket taker of the tournament, with 23 from 16 matches thereby winning the Purple Cap.
Deccan Chargers emerged as winners of the tournament.
He is also the leading all time wicket taker in Indian Premier League with 52 wickets.
He was bought for $600,000 by the Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League Players Auction, 2012.
After the England Series in 2011, he has never come back to international cricket.
The stadium was, before June 1994, known as the Khettarama Cricket Stadium and is today one of the main venues where the Sri Lankan cricket team play, having hosted more than 100 one day international matches .
It is the largest stadium in Sri Lanka with capacity of 35,000 spectators.
It has capacity exceeding Lord's Cricket Ground .
Home of Sri Lankan cricket
It was also the stadium where the highest Test score was scored.
On 28 August 1992 it hosted its inaugural Test match between Sri Lanka and Australia .
A new training center has been developed behind the stadium with 16 practice pitches and dormitories for the Sony Max Cricket Academy which started in 2003.
The stadium has been undergoing large-scale renovations since 2009.
It has had its seating capacity increase from 14,000 to 40,000, the media-box accommodating 200 journalists, and other upgrades.
The renovations have cost Sri Lanka Cricket $8 million.
The main four public stands were refurbished along with the player dressing room area and the corporate boxes.
Several corporate boxes are built in these two stands.
The lower tiers have concrete paving allocated for floor seating and the upper tier includes fully standard seating blocks.
The grandstand and top level block above the player pavilions have enhanced quality seating.
The tournament was later postponed till 2012 due to financial complications and internal regime change at Sri Lanka Cricket.
Sanath Jayasuriya scored 340 against India in 1997.
The best bowling figures in an innings is 6/18 by Muttiah Muralitharan against Bangladesh in the 2005/06 season.
Muttiah Muralitharan with 69 scalps has captured the most number of wickets at the Premadasa stadium.
The lowest Test total is 80 by Afghanistan against England in 21 September 2012.
It has hosted the highest number of cricket world cup matches in Sri Lanka .
Umpires: Mahboob Shah and Cyril Mitchley Sri Lanka won the toss and elected to bat first.
Nine matches were played in R. Premadasa Stadium including semi-finals and the final.
Fifteen out of twenty-seven matches were due to play in R. Premadasa stadium, including semi-finals and the final.
Other matches will be played in Pallekele International Cricket Stadium and Mahinda Rajapaksa International Stadium .
This biographical article needs additional citations for verification .
Please help by adding reliable sources .
Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful.
Unmukt Chand  is an Indian cricketer.
Unmukt Chand is an Indian cricketer who was born in Kumaoni Rajput family to Bharat Chand Thakur and Rajeshwari Chand, who are teachers.
He originally hails from Khudku Bhalya village of Pithoragarh District, Uttarakhand .
Unmukt shifted to Modern School, Barakhamba Road, in the 9th standard, getting admission in this prestigious school on the basis of his excellent performance in studies, in the written test and his skills in swimming.
Unmukt Chand scored 435 runs during his first stint with the Delhi U-19 team.
That year he also scored two half-centuries against Assam and Saurashtra .
In fact, he scored 400 runs for Delhi in five Ranji matches.
He has participated in Vinoo Mankad Trophy and the Coach Behar Trophy at the junior level.
Unmukt Chand was named the captain of the Delhi U-19 team  He ended the tournament with 336 runs from seven outings, just one behind Australia’s Cam Bancroft .
He also participated in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy later that season.
In his captaincy India also won the U-19 World cup in Australia.
Batting at 3, Chand scored an impressive 94 against England in the semi-final to help India win the match by 63 runs.
He won the Man of the match award in both the games.
Delhi went on to win the game by 95 runs and the title for the first time.
His performances however are nowhere near his match-winning performances for India U19 in the World Cup and he was dropped for the last game against Sunrisers Hyderabad.
He was picked for the Mumbai Indians in the 2015 season and spent most of the season on the sidelines due to indifferent performances.
The young lad grabbed his opportunity even in this competition.
He was the highest run-scorer.
Chand scored two back to back centuries, first against Kerala where he scored 105 off 67 balls, and then against Gujarat, scoring 125 off just 63 deliveries.
Delhi was later shocked by Odisha in the semi-finals where he failed to score.
The victory was India U-19 team’s first World Cup win outside Asia.
Learning and Creativity.
Learning and Creativity.
The TV pundits always find an answer.
And this time, in the context of at least the Indian players, they may even be right.
This series against West Indies is about the young and the restless India.
It's about assessing the hunger and the talent in these men.
Not many have criticised Raina's "attitude"; in fact Rahul Dravid hailed him as among the more hardworking youngsters he's seen in recent times.
In that respect he is treading the path of Michael Bevan.
Bevan's Test career was derailed by his problems against the short ball and Raina has to do something very quickly if he wants to avert similar free fall.
For long Virat Kohli had been oscillating between Rohit and Raina.
Attitude problems dogged him but he, like Raina, seemed determined to get himself out of the doghouse.
Slowly, step by step, he has erased almost all his blots.
And if Raina slips up, Kohli could well pounce on the captaincy as well.
Opportunity and fame threatened to get the better of him and he wasn't perhaps mentally equipped to deal with them.
Critics singled out his lack of hunger.
This series will be the chance for him to offer some definitive proof.
His path to manhood played out on big flat plasma screens to billions of fans.
Again, like Rohit, his talent has been scarcely questioned but everyone and his uncle have been hammering on his temperament.
For long Ishant Sharma has been living off that one demonic spell against Ricky Ponting.
Unlike Sreesanth or Rohit, his attitude has never been questioned.
Venkatesh Prasad, the former bowling coach, even nominated him as the most disciplined and hardworking aspirant.
Perhaps, in his case, he tried too much.
For long Murali Vijay has flattered to deceive.
If he can marry that kind of discipline with his talent, he can progress.
However, the jury is still out on his skill on tough pitches.
It's not to say that he doesn't have the talent to cope, but that he hasn't been tested yet.
It's here that the young and restless India will begin their path to sobriety.
Well done Sriram.
I wish every Indian player in the team read this.
I think he can prove that he is India's fastest bowler and best.
Well done Sriram.
I wish every Indian player in the team read this.
I think he can prove that he is India's fastest bowler and best.
Rahane misses out but every1 can't be selected But selectors should look at Rahane instead of Nohit Sharma's.
Scored tons of runs this domestic season, scored in the Irani trophy final and also did reasonably well for the Pune Warriors.
Kohli is not the future good captain of India.
His teprament is not honed to that much as he deserves to be the Captain of an Indian national Cricket team.
He could be sucessful in domestic as well as some small series.
But the weak point is M. Vijay.
He is better to only in Indian condition.
Though he played some good knocks outside.

See how Mukund able to over the weakness of our top order in the absence of Shewag and Gambhir.
He has lead the Jharkhand team as well in few occasions and shown how good he is.
Has he shown any 'cool' like Dhoni, or has he shown brilliant captaincy tricks that others were amazed with?
I am not saying anything about his batting.
He is good and like MVijay, Badri, Raina, etc he needs to be tested in pace-bowler-friendly track.
I seriously wish WI make all their pitches like the olden days Barbados.
It will help us bring out the men from the boys.
Just bummed that Pujara is injured and won't be playing.
I'm sure plenty of other Indian fans feel the same way.
Also, very glad Dravid, Laxman and Zak are there for guidance.
Couldn't pick any better seniors for the youngsters to learn from.

Murali vijay needs an attitude upgrade.
Ashwin is brilliant in subcontinent, it wud be interesting to see him in the caribean.
He really needs to buckle up and start taking his cricket more seriously.
I believe WI will win the series.
Hell man he could not do it against Zimbabwe.
I think the story is gonna be the same this time too!
Or are you assuming that he is not going to get any games in this tour because of Harbhajan's presence?on
Hell man he could not do it against Zimbabwe.
I think the story is gonna be the same this time too!
I believe WI will win the series.
He really needs to buckle up and start taking his cricket more seriously.
He was the coach of the England cricket team from 1999-2007, and is credited with the resurgence of the England team in Test cricket in the early years of the 2000s.
Career as player Career as coach Under Fletcher the England cricket team achieved famous series victories away to Sri Lanka, Pakistan, West Indies and South Africa between 2000-2004.
His most famous and largest achievement however came in September 2005, when he became the first coach of the English team to win an Ashes series for 18 years when England secured 2-1 victory over Australia.
Although both his parents and all his grandparents were ethnically English, i.e. of English/British descent, Fletcher had been denied citizenship by virtue of the fact he spent most of his time abroad—touring with the England team.
Following defeat to Australia by 206 runs in the third test on 18 December 2006 which saw England relinquish the Ashes 15 months after gaining them, the England and Wales Cricket Board confirmed that Fletcher's position as head coach was under review.
I'm passionate about it, it's the game I'd like to have been involved in."In
Fletcher's sister, Ann Grant captained the Zimbabwe women's field hockey team which won the gold medal in the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow .
This list may not reflect recent changes .
It is used for maintenance of the Wikipedia project and is not part of the encyclopedia.
Do not include this category in content categories.
This list may not reflect recent changes .
Vikas Mishra  is an Indian first-class cricketer .
This article needs additional citations for verification .
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Fast bowler Graham Onions bowling for Durham against Lancashire in the 2012 Friends Life t20Fast bowling, sometimes known as pace bowling, is one of the two main approaches to bowling in the sport of cricket .
The other is spin bowling .
The aim of fast bowling is to bowl the hard cricket ball at high speed and to induce it to bounce off the pitch in an erratic fashion or move sideways through the air, factors which make it difficult for the batsman to hit the ball cleanly.
Most fast bowlers will specialise in one of these two areas and will sometimes be categorised as swing or seam bowler.
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
The basic fast bowling grip to achieve maximum speed is to hold the ball with the seam upright and to place the index and middle fingers close together at the top of the seam with the thumb gripping the ball at the bottom of the seam.
The image to the right shows the correct grip.
The first two fingers and the thumb should hold the ball forward of the rest of the hand, and the other two fingers should be tucked into the palm.
The ball is held quite loosely so that it leaves the hand easily.
Fast bowlers will measure their preferred run up in strides and mark the distance from the wicket.
It is important for the bowler to know exactly how long his or her run-up is because it needs to terminate at the popping crease .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
At the end of the run-up the bowler will bring his lead foot down on the pitch with the knee as straight as possible.
This aids in generating speed but can be dangerous due to the pressure placed on the joint by this action.
Knee injuries are not uncommon amongst fast bowlers: for example, the English pace bowler David Lawrence was sidelined for many months after splitting his kneecap in two.
The pressure on the leading foot is such that some fast bowlers cut the front off their shoes to stop their toes from being injured as they are repeatedly pressed against the inside of the shoe.
The bowler will then bring their bowling arm up over their head and release the ball at the height appropriate to where they want the ball to pitch.
Bending the elbow and "chucking" the ball would make it too easy for the bowler to aim accurately at the batsman's wicket and get them out.
Note the "sling shot" action.
Fast bowlers tend to have an action which leaves them either side-on or chest-on at the end of the run up.
The slinging action generates extra speed, but sacrifices control.
Matthew Hoggard begins his follow-through in training.
After the ball has been released, the bowler "follows through" at the end of his or her action.
Line and length This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
In this context, line refers to the path of the ball towards the batsman, in the horizontal dimension running from the off to the leg side, while length describes the distance the ball travels toward the batsman before bouncing.
The faster the bowler, the harder it is to achieve consistent line and length but sheer speed can make up for the shortfall.
Fast bowlers who also manage to be accurate can be devastatingly effective, for example the likes of Australian pace bowler Glenn McGrath and South African pace bowler Shaun Pollock .
This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
A good length ball or salmon ball is one that arrives at the batsman at around waist height.
The diagram to the right should help explain what the different lengths mean.
Any ball which is short enough to bounce over the batsman's head is usually called wide by the Umpire .
These are often easier for the batsman to play than the good length because they do not have time to move much after bouncing off the seam and, arriving at the batsmen low to the ground, are ideal for drive strokes.
However, in conditions favourable to swing bowling full pitched bowling gives the ball more time to move through the air challenging the batsman weigh up the risk of being able to play drives against uncertainty about the swing.
Closer still to the batsman's feet is the yorker .

This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
For fast bowlers, this can be achieved through sheer speed and aggression, rather than trying to make the ball move through the air or off the pitch.
The inswinging yorker is seen as particularly deadly.
This causes two problems for the batsman who receives the ball.
If he or she attempts to play it, their bat will be at eye-level making it difficult for them to watch the ball onto the bat and time their shot correctly.
For this reason, bowling spells containing many bouncers are said to be intimidatory bowling.
Most batsman have panicked and lost their wickets in this fashion several times in their career after prolonged spells of bouncers.
Physically powerful batsmen often attempt to strike the ball on the rise, even though this obstructs their vision of the ball since it is not uncommon that their sheer brute force combined with the speed of the ball will cause it to fly to the boundary.
This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
This deceives the batsman, who will likely attempt to play the ball as though it were at full speed, causing him or her to mistime their shot.
In an extreme case, the batsman will play the shot so early as to completely play over the ball, and be clean-bowled .
Essentially the only difference is that the middle and index fingers are split and come down on each side of the seam.
This causes more drag on the ball as it leaves the hand, slowing down the delivery.
Slower balls are also bowled by using the off break grip and finger action used by off spinners .
A more experienced batsman will be able to adjust his/her shot mid-stroke, momentarily pausing so as to middle the ball when it is hit.
This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
This is difficult, and the yorker can often squeeze through the gap and break the wicket.
For these two reasons, yorkers are not common deliveries in most circumstances.
Therefore, the yorker is very frequently bowled in these circumstances, and bowlers who can bowl yorkers accurately are prized in this form of cricket.
Andrew Flintoff of England bowls in the nets, watched by Kevin Shine .
Note the upright seam This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Seam bowling is the act of using the seam of the ball to cause the ball to bounce in an unpredictable fashion when it hits the pitch.
Seam deliveries can be bowled at any pace, but most specialist seamers bowl at medium, medium-fast or fast-medium pace.
The basic technique of seam bowling is to employ the normal fast bowling or slower ball grip and to try to ensure that the seam remains upright until the ball hits the pitch.
If the seam is upright and the ball is spinning around its horizontal axis, there is no appreciable Magnus effect and the ball will not move in the air.
The seam of the ball is raised and will cause variations in bounce and movement if it is the first part of the ball to hit the pitch.
This is known as variable bounce.
Main articles: Leg cutter and Off cutter This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
A ball rotating around the seam will move either right or left when it hits the pitch, depending on which way the ball is spinning.
Cutters are usually aimed so that they hit the pitch just outside the batsman's off stump and move away from the wicket.
This will cause the ball to catch the outside edge of the bat instead of the middle and fly up to be caught in the slips .
As well as changing the grip, the bowler must pull his or her fingers down the appropriate side of the ball as it leaves their hand in order to impart the required spin.
This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Swing bowlers cause the ball to move laterally through the air, rather than off the pitch like seam bowlers.
As the ball gets older, the wear makes swing more difficult to achieve, but this can be countered if the fielding team systematically polishes one side of the ball while allowing the other to become rough.
Contrary to popular opinion, this swing is not produced by air flowing faster over the smooth or "shiny" side as compared to the rough side.
For conventional swing bowling, the raised seam and the direction in which it is pointed governs the direction of swing.
Due to the angled seam of the ball, air flowing over the seam produces turbulence on the side that the seam is angled toward.
This causes the boundary layer to separate from the surface of the ball later .
The resulting net force acts so as to move or swing the ball in the direction of the angled seam.
Conventional swing bowling is delivered with the seam angled such that the smooth or polished side of the ball faces forward to move the ball in the direction of the seam i.e. toward the rough side.
A swinging ball is classed as either an outswinger, which moves away from the batsman, or an inswinger, which moves in toward the batsman.
In most cases the outswinger is seen as the more dangerous ball because, if the batsman fails to recognise it, it will catch the outside edge of the bat instead of the middle and fly up to be caught in the slips .
Inswingers have their place too, especially combined with the yorker as this can result in the ball either breaking the wicket .
Swing balls are bowled with the same grip and technique as fast balls although the seam is usually angled slightly rather than straight, and the slower ball grip may be used.
For an outswinger the shiny side of the ball is nearest the batsman and the seam is angled away from him while for an inswinger, the rough side needs to be nearest the batsman and the seam angled toward them.
Many players, commentators on the game, and fans agree that swing is easier to achieve in humid or overcast conditions, and also that the red ball used in Test cricket swings more than the white ball used in the one-day game .
This means that an older ball is more likely to be delivered with reverse swing as its surface will have been roughened through use.
In reverse swing the seam is angled in the same way as in conventional swing  but the boundary layer on both sides is turbulent.
The net effect of the seam and rough side is that the ball swings in the direction opposite to where the seam is pointing to.
The discovery of reverse swing is credited to Pakistan's cricketers, with Sarfraz Nawaz and Farrakh Khan both named as originators of the delivery.
Now, in one-day cricket the mandatory two new balls rule  means that the chances of reverse swing are reduced drastically.
With two new balls being used, the amount of wear that each ball is subject to is half as compared to usual.
See also: Inswinger and Outswinger This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
The indipper moves in to the right-handed batsman while the outdipper moves away.
This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
This is somewhat restrained by some of the laws of cricket, including those which disallow excessive use of bouncers and any use of the "beamer", which is aimed directly at the head on the full.
In almost all instances verbal 'sledging' accompanies the attack.
One instance of excessive use was the Bodyline series, where the English Cricket Captain at the time .
This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Because nearly all cricket teams will contain several fast bowlers of differing speeds and styles, the tactics of fast bowling depends not only on changing the field placements but on changing the bowler and the types and sequences of deliveries bowled as well.
The precise tactics will be determined by many factors including the state of the game, the state of the pitch, the weather and the relative energy and skill levels of the various players available to bowl.
Deployment of bowlers This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Reverse swing bowlers can continue to extract large amounts of movement from balls well over 80 overs old.
This is why most sides opt to include at least two seam bowlers who are known as opening bowlers.
Deployment of fielders This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
The various techniques of fast bowling lend themselves to three ways of getting the batsman out.
Swing or seam may be employed to move the ball away from the batsman in which case the ball will strike the outside edge of the bat and may be caught in the slips.
It follows that the most effective field placements for aggressive fast bowling are to pack the outfield and the slips cordon and gully since these are the positions in which the batsman is most likely to be caught.
Other close fielding positions such as silly mid on/off and the various midwicket and cover positions are generally redundant.
Bowling an over This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
The primary goal of any bowler is to take the wicket of the batsman.
The secondary goal is to prevent the batsman scoring runs.
In addition, stopping the batsman from scoring will usually mean that the bowler gets to bowl several consecutive balls at the same batsman, giving them the opportunity to set up some kind of tactical sequence.
The batsman can simply defend his or her wicket and pick off the occasional bad ball.
Common variations and their tactical application are discussed below.
The precise balls chosen by the bowler during an over will depend on the situation of the match, the skill of the batsman and how settled the batsman is at the crease.
It is common to attack batsmen who have recently come to the wicket with successive short-pitched balls or bouncers with the dual aim of getting them out and stopping them from settling into an attacking mode of play for as long as possible.
Most batsmen prefer to play shots off either the front or back foot and this will influence the bowlers' choice of balls.
It is difficult to play short balls off the front foot so bowlers will bowl more short balls at batsmen who prefer the front foot.
Likewise, it is hard to play yorkers and full pitched balls off the back foot so those are the deliveries of choice against back foot players.
An unobservant or complacent batsman can easily be caught unawares and lose their wicket.
Another variation, especially against batsmen who have settled at the wicket and are starting to score more freely, is to switch the line of attack from the area just outside the off stump to bowling directly at leg stump.
This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Risks of injuries The human body is not built for the work load of fast bowling.
Fast bowling puts extreme pressure on the whole body, especially the feet, back and the shoulder.
Nevertheless, it is possible for fast bowlers to follow various workout regimes suited especially for them.
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
However, after receiving the call and organising travel arrangements, it was decided not to send him on the tour.
Ishant plays for Delhi in domestic cricket and has taken 68 wickets in 14  first-class games, Ishant toured England with the India Under-19s in 2006 and Pakistan in 2006–07.
He played three youth tests and six youth One Day Internationals for India.
This was the highest amount paid for any bowler in tournament.
Later on, he was called for the tour of England in July–August 2007.
Sharma was left out in the Boxing Day Test at Melbourne during the Border–Gavaskar Trophy as India retained their main fast bowlers, Zaheer Khan and RP Singh.
He bowled reasonably in the match, however without much luck.
Although he had little success, the management retained him for the third Test match at Perth.
On the fourth day of the match he bowled an exceptional spell to Australian captain Ricky Ponting that resulted in his wicket and helped India claim victory.
He ended the match with figures of 4/38 and named Man of the Match.
He was noted for achieving reverse swing on balls sometimes as young as eight overs, and along with senior opening bowler Zaheer Khan, troubled the touring Australians.
However, in 2009, Ishant's form slumped, and he was dropped for the second Test against Sri Lanka, replaced by Sreesanth .
Ishant provided Laxman with support during an 81-run partnership in which he contributed 31 valuable runs.
In July and August the team played four Tests in England .
India won the series 2–1.
Ishant Sharma" .
The league, founded by the Board of Control for Cricket in India  in 2008, is scheduled over April and May of each year.
The brand value of the 2014 Indian Premier League was estimated to be US$7.2
Chennai Super Kings are the most successful team, having won the title twice and having qualified for the finals in every season except in 2009 and 2014.
In addition, Chennai Super Kings have reached the playoffs in every season.
Mumbai Indians are the current champions.
Also the only player to win man of the tournament twice.
While Pune Warriors was bought by Sahara Adventure Sports Group for $370 million, the Kochi franchise was bought by Rendezvous Sports World Limited for $333.3 million.
Kochi Tuskers suspended at the end of the season due to financial irregularities.
This is great going.
This is huge by all imaginations.
This is just fantastic news," he said.
The official website of the tournament is www.iplt20.com .
This section does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
The board also announced enhanced anti-corruption measures, including two more security personnel with each team.
It also banned two club owners, Gurunath Meiyappan and Raj Kundra, for life, due to their involvement in betting.
These judgements can be considered as the aftermath of previous years' spot-fixing issues.
Jadeja represents Saurashtra in first-class cricket and the Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League .
He was part of the Indian U-19 cricket team that won the World Cup in Malaysia in 2008.
He also represented Indian U-19 cricket team in 2006.
However, his Test debut came almost four years later, in December 2012, against England at Nagpur.
His mother Lata died in an accident in 2005.
The trauma of his mother's death almost made him quit cricket.
He lives in Jamnagar .
Jadeja made his first Under-19 appearance for India in 2005 at the age of 16.
He was picked in the Indian squad for the 2006 U/19 Cricket World Cup in Sri Lanka.
He was the vice-captain of the victorious Indian team at the 2008 U/19 Cricket World Cup .
He plays for West Zone in the Duleep Trophy and for Saurashtra in the Ranji Trophy .
His third came against Railways in December 2012, in which he scored 331 runs in 501 balls.
Jadeja reached this milestone at the young age of only 23.
In the 2009 World Twenty20, Jadeja was criticized for not scoring fast enough in India's loss to England.
His best bowling is 4–32.
Arriving at the crease with India 58–5 after 19 overs, he scored 78, adding 112 with skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni and 59 off only 5.1 overs with Ravichandran Ashwin to help his side reach 234–7 in 50 overs.
India went on to win the game and Jadeja was awarded Man of the Match, mainly for his fielding efforts.
This performance earned Jadeja the Man of the Match award.
In the historic 4–0 home Test series win against Australia in February–March 2013, Jadeja took 24 wickets, dismissing the Australian captain Michael Clarke five out of six times in the series which cemented his place in the team as an all-rounder despite not contributing much with the bat.
Jadeja is the first India bowler to top the rankings since Anil Kumble, who topped the table in 1996.
He is the fourth India bowler after Kapil Dev, Maninder Singh and Kumble to be ranked No. 1. Jadeja scored his maiden test fifty on 20 July 2014 playing against England saving the match for India who were struggling at 235/7.
He made 68 runs from just 57 balls.
Ravindra Jadeja was selected by the Rajasthan Royals for the inaugural season of the Indian Premier League .
Warne predicts bright future for Jadeja the jewel
Ravindra Jadeja and Cheteshwar Pujara are role models for youngsters, says Sunil Gavaskar
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment The outgoing India bowling coach talks about the development of Ishant Sharma and Sreesanth, Umesh Yadav's future and the highlights of his stint Eric Simons is approaching the end of his term as bowling coach of India.
It hurts him that early reports suggested he was sacked, or, to use popular parlance, "the first casualty of the two whitewashes".
Had the results of his work as bowling coach been more conspicuous, he may not have minded such suggestions as much.
There are contrasting views on Simons.
The players all praise him, which is why his contract was extended in the first place.
In what was, in all likelihood, Simons' final press conference as India bowling coach, he spoke at length about various issues and bowlers.
He disagrees with the notion that Ishant does not know how to take wickets.
He insists Ishant has worked on his game, bowling six to 18 inches fuller on the Australia tour than he previously did, and that he has been unlucky.
He says Sreesanth is one of the most skilled bowlers he has worked with, but the fact that he could not inculcate consistency in him was something that disappointed him.
Here are some excerpts from the press conference.
In one of the first series  versus South Africa, in the Test we won in Kolkata, he bowled brilliantly but didn't get the rewards he deserved.
You could see his frustration.
We know that the Australians were pleased he wasn't involved in the one-day series.
For Ishant to hit the stumps, he has to pitch it fuller, and that means the batsman has more chance of keeping it out.
He has to find the right mix of deliveries to bowl.
Can one be unlucky for so long?In the past, maybe you could make the point that he was not really that unlucky; but in the series against Australia, the nick that went between Laxman and Dhoni, the balls that looped and dropped safe, ones that hit the splice and did not go to hand, they were really down to poor luck.
I really do believe he was unlucky.
I hope he is not discouraged.
I hope Indian cricket sticks with him.
They have got an incredible cricketer in him.
We worked on getting his length right.
It is not always that easy, you know.
He wants to play one-day cricket.
At that stage that was probably the right decision.
I think he is bowling exceptionally well.
It is all about control and confidence.
You are at the nets, you know the guy, you know he is ready and when to let him go, and when not to.
Maybe being conservative with Ishant is the way the selectors want to go.
I think he is ready, but that's the selectors' decision.
You were so impressed with Munaf Patel.
That counted in someone like RP's favour.
If you have bowlers who are all similar then the batsman never has to change his angle or think differently.
I have not met someone with the skill of Sreesanth.
His skills are phenomenal.
You need consistency.
There is no point in bowling three or four good balls in an over, and then letting the batsmen off the hook.
You watch Ben Hilfenhaus.
His plan was very simple and was very successful too.
I disagree about Ishant, though.
We needed the pace back.
In this series against Australia he was bowling at 140-plus again.
Our attack was probably quicker than the Australian attack, which is quite unusual for an Indian attack.
I started working with him two years ago, at the Delhi Daredevils.
So often on television people say his wrist is collapsing.
To me that's commentary.
How you fix it is coaching.
He was given drills two years ago, and he has performed them diligently.
He is now bowling this beautiful away swing at 145kph-plus, he is an incredible athlete, and he has got incredible stamina and strength.
I just think, as he grows and understands his craft better, he is going to get better.
He is one of the most exciting bowlers in the world today, not just in India.
I don't know what happened with other young bowlers.
Each one is going to have different stories about what happened and what didn't happen.
How has it been working with Zaheer, who has been in and out of the side?One of the things that is very encouraging is how fit Zaheer is looking at the moment and how excited he is about playing cricket again.
What about the spinners?R Ashwin has been bowling really well.
We weren't able to pick two spinners.
It's more about individuals growing as cricketers and people.
I think from that perspective I'll walk away feeling that I've made some contribution, and take some pleasure and enjoyment out of that.
What are your future plans?I've been appointed head coach of the Delhi Daredevils, so that'll be my next assignment in the cricketing world.
People with 'will to excel' never talk about luck.
Ishant does not swing.
Does not change his length per batsman.
How else one would take wickets.
In the whole article Eric never talked about "brains" for the bowler.
Venkatesh Prasad, as coach declared already that Ind bowlers are not practicing enough.
India should persist with him.
I would like to see him and Umesh Yadav taking up the new ball.
All the Indian bowlers are unlucky to have Eric Simons as their coach.
Their selectors dont care if Ponting has been unlcucky or what.
Also it will solve the problem of some of the seniors in the Test Squad.
Stop kidding us Simmons.
No one can remain unlucky for so long.
Even if it was true, then what is the point in having him in the team?
We should stop looking for talent and start looking for some lucky guys.
I am sure there will be many in India.
Then shouldn't the selectors know that also.
If not, then can someone please tell the selectors that there is no harm in trying some other youngsters.
After all Ishant has not performed at all.
So atleast there should be no fear of missing him if something goes wrong.
Things can only get better.
In this melieu we dont want to realise that Ishant also needs to be replaceed.
We Would be better off doing it now, otherwise we will be stuck like Pakistan, looking for too many replacements in all the deciplines of the game is not good.
As far as Ishant quality is concerned, if he is really good let him get some wickets in the domestic competition, then he can be reassesed.
Yes the opposition team would love to see Ishant in the Indian team.
Irfan Pathan, Sreesanth, PK or Vinay can provide support as third seamer.
People with 'will to excel' never talk about luck.
Ishant does not swing.
Does not change his length per batsman.
How else one would take wickets.
In the whole article Eric never talked about "brains" for the bowler.
Venkatesh Prasad, as coach declared already that Ind bowlers are not practicing enough.
India should persist with him.
I would like to see him and Umesh Yadav taking up the new ball.
All the Indian bowlers are unlucky to have Eric Simons as their coach.
Their selectors dont care if Ponting has been unlcucky or what.
Also it will solve the problem of some of the seniors in the Test Squad.
Stop kidding us Simmons.
No one can remain unlucky for so long.
Even if it was true, then what is the point in having him in the team?
We should stop looking for talent and start looking for some lucky guys.
I am sure there will be many in India.
Then shouldn't the selectors know that also.
If not, then can someone please tell the selectors that there is no harm in trying some other youngsters.
After all Ishant has not performed at all.
So atleast there should be no fear of missing him if something goes wrong.
Things can only get better.
In this melieu we dont want to realise that Ishant also needs to be replaceed.
We Would be better off doing it now, otherwise we will be stuck like Pakistan, looking for too many replacements in all the deciplines of the game is not good.
As far as Ishant quality is concerned, if he is really good let him get some wickets in the domestic competition, then he can be reassesed.
Yes the opposition team would love to see Ishant in the Indian team.
Irfan Pathan, Sreesanth, PK or Vinay can provide support as third seamer.
Once Shane Warne said about Monty Panesar that he has not played 26 test matches, but played the same match 26 times.
The same is true about Ishant Sharma.
He is still at the same level.
Fast bowler needs to learn use of crease to create proper angles, speed variation, yorkers, subtle variation in length, and swings.
Just bowling at pace with monotony will not make him effective, specially when varying length only ends up giving boundry balls to batsmen.
Waqar was the coach of Umar Gul and Wahab Riaz.
What did he do.
Nothing can be done about Ishant.

The line and lenght are just the normal stuff .
Players should understand that coaches can only do that much.
It is the player who needs to understand his core competitive edge and not loose it.
For example, do you think Kumble would have reduced pace and flighted more because of any coach's advice or injury?
But look at Ishant.
First of all how did he get into the team.

Eric.but no  gus luck you did really well at least we won the world cup.
Every winner is lucky and every loser is unlucky.
He has the ability to turn things out for Indian bowlers.
I find Joe exciting too but no Indian bowler will work that hard as he think they will.
We will sure going to here some controversy will the new coach.
Both will benefit more to Indian cricket than the current coach.
I would like to use the service of Wasim Akram in the domestic setup to help Indian bowlers.
I want Praveen to get some tips from him as after injury he is out of touch and Wasim will help him getting back his swing.
And batsmen keep on missing.
But the length is not good enough.
At the moment it seems Zaheer Khan, Praveen Kumar and Yadav are the three best pacers in India at the moment.
If these three bowled together in England and Australia the result would have been tighter but still nowhere near enough to win.
I believe none of Aussies bowlers individually would have done the same damage from the Indian side.
He did his best and one of the top draw bowlers for India .
The best fielders change bad luck to awesome bowling.
Sadly we have to hide almost 7-8 people in our test team, whereas the aussies barely have to hide 1-3 people.
For me that and the discipline in bowling is the difference.
Do not invest any more hopes on Ishant and let hime earn selection by working hard and doing exceptionally at the domestic level.
He is is bowling with out using his brains.
I expected him to learn.
He has potential.
Just does not use his brains and line and length.
Ishant Sharma has taken huge steps backward.
Indian selectors have invested in havily but he has not repaid them back their faith.
You cannot be unlucky for 40 out of 45 tests you have played.
Simmons needs to go, and Ishant needs to be dropped to work out his game domestically.
Ponting, Clarke etc. said same thing during Test series that Ishant have bowled excellently but has no rewards to show.
This is India.
With such stats any bowker in the world would be first thrown out, then loose central contracts.
But in India we find novel ways of honoring failures and paying underperforming bowlers.
Compare these stats to any bowler in the world.
Nowhere in the world will you find such stats being honoured.
At 45 tests he is more experienced than Sreesant.
But his bowling average is nearing 38 in tests.
In any other county he would have been thrown out long back.
Am glad to see from the various comments that same is the case of many other fans.
We should learn to move on.
That is the way forward.
In the end turned out to be nothing.
Young praveen is far more skillful.
Also Varun Aaron is round the corner.
We have such diamonds scattered all over the country, just some one has to mine them out into the international scene.
Look at England's bowling in the recently concluded series against Pakistan.
Yes, they lost 3-0 but their bowling was still very good.
Those were really the series where we needed your help the most and you did not deliver.
Umesh, Vinay, Pathan, Munaf, Sreesanth, RP Singh, Rituraj Singh, Dinda have potential and need help to develop it properly.
Regarding dropped catches and missing by whiskers this happens to all the bowlers all the time.
Infact he should ask the Pakistani bowlers who have the worst fielders in the world.
He bowled beautifully in India but was not rewarded.
Unfortunately, he was in the era of McGrath and did not shine much.
You can hardly blame Simmons for supporting Ishant.
But another way to look at it is that India don't have too many other options, so they should stick with Ishant and keep giving him chances.
That worked wonders with Zaheer, maybe Ishant will be the same.
At 130 kmph he had batsmen fearing him.
Sadly, India will overbowl and overhype Yadav and soon he will fade into oblivion like so many before him.
He really bowled well in the previous tour but this time he was bowling short again.
If Indian bowlers needed any guidance, all they had to do is to look at their opposite numbers who won the Test series with some disciplined bowling with relentless accuracy.
It's sad to hear the words like 'luck' from an international coach.
Broad, Tremlett of Eng, are around 6'6".
Also Goel Garner, Curtly Ambros, Croft Bishop, Walsh, Mcgrath, had height more than Ishant.
And they knew how to hit the stumps, All of them would hit the stumps at will.
This Guy Eric expects us to accept such explanations.
Also don't you think that if he is so unlucky then removing him might improve India's chances with Luck?
Come-on stop kidding me.
The New boys Umesh Yadav and R.Ashwin bowled much better than him in the Aus Tests.
They gave fewer runs and took more wickets.
Ishant was the weakest link in the attack, though he was the most experienced bowler behind Zaheer.
I don't believe there is progress .
I don't think he is improving at all.
We should have tried Umesh earlier.
Also in England Praveen proved to be far better than Ishant.
Come-on This is series after series in helpful conditions for pace bowling.
Give the younsters an opportunity.
I am sure we will find more boys like Praveen and Umesh.



Are you kidding me?
You take wickets with skill, not 'luck'.
You don't have to be an express tearaway all the time to take wickets.
He hasn't learned from his mistakes.
When he was came before, his line and length were perfect but now he seems to have lost it.
India should look at Wasim Akram or Curtly Ambrose as coach.


India should look at Wasim Akram or Curtly Ambrose as coach.
He hasn't learned from his mistakes.
When he was came before, his line and length were perfect but now he seems to have lost it.
Are you kidding me?
You take wickets with skill, not 'luck'.
You don't have to be an express tearaway all the time to take wickets.



Also don't you think that if he is so unlucky then removing him might improve India's chances with Luck?
Come-on stop kidding me.
The New boys Umesh Yadav and R.Ashwin bowled much better than him in the Aus Tests.
They gave fewer runs and took more wickets.
Ishant was the weakest link in the attack, though he was the most experienced bowler behind Zaheer.
I don't believe there is progress .
I don't think he is improving at all.
We should have tried Umesh earlier.
Also in England Praveen proved to be far better than Ishant.
Come-on This is series after series in helpful conditions for pace bowling.
Give the younsters an opportunity.
I am sure we will find more boys like Praveen and Umesh.
Rahul started his international career debuting against Australia in the 2014-15 Test series at Melbourne.
In his second Test match at Sydney, he scored 110, his maiden Test century.
Rahul made his debut in the 2010-11 season, playing first-class cricket for Karnataka .
He made his debut in Indian Premier League in 2014, playing for Sunrisers Hyderabad .
Playing for South Zone in the final of the 2014–15 Duleep Trophy against Central Zone, Rahul scored 185 off 233 balls in the first innings and 130 off 152 balls in the second.
Although his contribution went in vain with South Zone losing the match by nine runs, his efforts earned him the man of the match award and selection to the Indian Test squad for the Australian tour in December 2014.
He also made 188 runs in the Final and finshed the same Ranji season with an average of 93.11 in the nine matches he played.
After an excellent domestic season in 2014, Rahul was picked in the Indian Test squad for the Australian tour .
He made his Test Debut in the Boxing Day Test Match beginning on 26 December 2014 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground .
He replaced Rohit Sharma and was handed over the Test cap by MS Dhoni .
He retained his place for the fourth test played at Sydney Cricket Ground .
He open the inning with Murali Vijay and made 110 runs, his maiden International hundred.
But he did not show any progress in the first match where he got out early in both innings for less than 10 runs.
In the second match of the series, Shikhar Dhawan lost his place due to injury and ruled out from the rest of the tour.
India finally went on to win the match to level the series and Rahul named as the man of the match.
Rahul originally hails from Mangalore .
His mother, Rajeshwari, is an associate professor at Mangalore University ’s undergraduate college.
The men wearing black trousers on the far right are the umpires .
Test cricket is the longest form of the sport of cricket .
Test matches are played between national representative teams with "Test status", as determined by the International Cricket Council .
It is generally considered the most complete examination of teams' playing ability and endurance.
In October 2012, the International Cricket Council recast the playing conditions for Test matches, permitting day/night Test matches.
Test matches are included in first-class cricket .
Matches are played between national representative teams with "Test status", as determined by the International Cricket Council .
If the Associate team defeats the test nation, then they could be added as the new test country and be given full membership.
A list of matches, defined as "Tests", was first drawn up by Australian Clarence Moody in the mid-1890s.
Representative matches played by simultaneous England touring sides of 1891–92  are deemed to have "Test status.
Although initially given Test status .
There are currently ten Test-playing teams, representing individual nations except for England and the West Indies .
The winning team is the one that scores more runs in their two innings.
A team's innings ends in one of the following ways: The team is "all out".
The team's captain declares the innings closed, usually because they believe they have enough runs.
A declaration before the innings starts is called an innings forfeiture.
This is called enforcing the follow on .
During the 2nd test between England and New Zealand at Headingley, Leeds, 24–28 May 2013, England batted first after the first day was lost because of rain.
New Zealand, batting second, scored 180 runs fewer than England, meaning England could have enforced the follow on, though chose not to.
This is similar to four-day first class cricket, where the follow on can be enforced if the difference is 150 runs or fewer.
The roughened, softer surface of an old ball can be more conducive to spin bowlers, or those using reverse swing .
The captain may delay the decision to take the new ball if he wishes to continue with his spinners .
A Test match may end in one of six results :All four innings are complete.
The team batting fourth are all out before overtaking the other team, usually before matching the other team's score.
The team that batted thirdy Community College.
Some Dominicans attend universities in Cuba on scholarships offered by its government.
Others go to the University of the West Indies or to universities in the United Kingdom, the United States, or other countries.
Currently All Saints is located in Roseau, Dominica .
Angela did not start her race, and Gary pulled out several hundred meters into his race.
To date, they are Dominica's only Winter Olympic athletes.
Dominica has two major newspapers, The Sun and The Chronicle .
Orange shut down in 2010 and is no longer operating on the island of Dominica.
This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain .
St. Lucia and possibly two in Dominica" .
Cardiff is the county town of the historic county of Glamorgan .
Cardiff is part of the Eurocities network of the largest European cities.
Since the 1990s, Cardiff has seen significant development.
A new waterfront area at Cardiff Bay contains the Senedd building, home to the Welsh Assembly and the Wales Millennium Centre arts complex.
The city was awarded with the European City of Sport in 2009 due to its role in hosting major international sporting events.
Again Cardiff was the European City of Sport in 2014.
Although some sources repeat this theory, it has been rejected on linguistic grounds by modern scholars such as Professor Gwynedd Pierce.
Little is known about the fort and civilian settlement in the period between the Roman departure from Britain and the Norman Conquest.
The settlement probably shrank in size and may even have been abandoned.
In the absence of Roman rule, Wales was divided into small kingdoms; early on, Meurig ap Tewdrig emerged as the local king in Glywysing .
The area passed through his family until the advent of the Normans in the 11th century.
Original Roman work can, however, still be distinguished in the wall facings.
A small town grew up in the shadow of the castle, made up primarily of settlers from England.
In 1404 Owain Glyndŵr burned Cardiff and took Cardiff Castle.
In 1536, the Act of Union between England and Wales led to the creation of the shire of Glamorgan, and Cardiff was made the county town .
It also became part of Kibbor hundred .
In the ensuing century Cardiff was at peace.
He would spend his life building the Cardiff docks and would later be called "the creator of modern Cardiff".
A permanent military presence was established in the town with the completion of Maindy Barracks in 1877.
By 1936, their trade was less than half its value in 1913, reflecting the slump in demand for Welsh coal .
Caernarfon had also vied for this title.
Cardiff therefore celebrated two important anniversaries in 2005.
The city was county town of Glamorgan until the council reorganisation in 1974 paired Cardiff and the now Vale of Glamorgan together as the new county of South Glamorgan .
Voters elect 75 councillors every four years.
The Liberal Democrats held the largest number of seats and Cllr Rodney Berman was Leader of the Council.
In the 2012 elections the Labour Party achieved an outright majority, after gaining an additional 33 seats across the city.
The National Assembly for Wales has been based in Cardiff Bay since its formation in 1999.
The building, known as the Senedd  to the Assembly, with the individual constituencies for the Assembly being the same as for the UK Parliament.
All of the city's residents have an extra vote for the South Wales Central region which increases proportionality to the Assembly.
In the Assembly Cardiff is represented by Jenny Rathbone  in Cardiff West .
In Westminster, Cardiff is represented by Jo Stevens  in Cardiff West .
For local government purposes, Cardiff is divided into communities.
Several of these have their own community council, while the rest are governed solely by Cardiff City Council.
They are:Main article: Geography of Cardiff The centre of Cardiff is relatively flat and is bounded by hills on the outskirts to the east, north and west.
Its geographic features were influential in its development as the world's largest coal port, most notably its proximity and easy access to the coal fields of the south Wales valleys.
The highest point in the authority is Garth Hill 307 metres  above sea level .
The River Taff winds through the centre of the city and together with the River Ely flows into the freshwater lake of Cardiff Bay.
A third river, the Rhymney flows through the east of the city entering directly into the Severn Estuary.
The Glamorgan coast is the only part of the Celtic Sea that has exposed Jurassic  geology.
Consequently, smuggling, deliberate shipwrecking and attacks on ships were common.
With the exception of some of the outlying privately built estates at Michaelston Super Ely and 1930s developments near Waun-Gron Road, this is an economically disadvantaged area with high numbers of unemployed households.
In particular, Lisvane, Cyncoed, Radyr and Rhiwbina contain some of the most expensive housing in Wales.
The latter three are again largely of public housing stock, although new private housing is being built in Trowbridge in considerable number.
Dock feeder canal in Atlantic Wharf in Winter The northern part of the county, being higher and inland—for example, The Garth —tends to be cooler and wetter than the city centre.
Cardiff's maximum and minimum monthly temperatures average 21.5 °C .
Cardiff has 1518 hours of sunshine during an average year .
Rain falls in Cardiff on 146 days during an average year, with total annual rainfall of 1,111.7 millimetres .
Source: Vision of Britain except 2011, which is the 2011 census data from the Office for National Statistics .
The city council has published two articles that argue the 2001 census seriously under reports the population of Cardiff and, in particular, the ethnic minority population of some inner city areas.
Cardiff has an ethnically diverse population due to its past trading connections, post-war immigration and the large numbers of foreign students who attend university in the city.
The ethnic make-up of Cardiff's population at the time of the 2011 census was: 84.7% White, 1.6% mixed White and Black African/Caribbean, 0.7% mixed White and Asian, 0.6% mixed other, 8% Asian, 2.4% Black, 1.4% Arab and 0.6% other ethnic groups.
Welsh was the majority language in Cardiff from the 13th century until the city's explosive growth in the Victorian era .
Since 1922 Cardiff has included the suburban cathedral 'village' of Llandaff, whose bishop is also Archbishop of Wales since 2002.
Shri Swaminarayan Mandir was the first Hindu temple in Wales, it is also the largest in Wales The oldest of the non-Christian communities in Wales is Judaism.
A Welsh Jewish community was re-established in the 18th century.
In the 2001 census Cardiff's Muslim population stood at 3.7%, above the UK average  and significantly above the Welsh average .
Cardiff has one of the longest-established Muslim populations in the UK, started by Yemeni sailors who settled in the city during the 19th century.
The proportion of Cardiff residents declaring themselves to be Hindu, Sikh and Jewish were all considerably higher than the Welsh averages, but less than the UK figures.
The University Hospital of Wales is the third largest hospital in the UK and deals with most accidents and emergencies.
The University Dental Hospital, which provides emergency dental treatment, is also located on this site.
Llandough Hospital is located in the south of the city.
The city's newest hospital, St. David's Hospital  is located in the Canton area and provides services for the elderly and children.
Cardiff Royal Infirmary is located on Newport Road, near the city centre.
The majority of this hospital was closed in 1999 but with the West Wing remaining open for clinic services, genitourinary medicine and rehabilitation treatment.
Rookwood Hospital and Whitchurch Hospital are also located within the city, along with Rookwood Hospital and Velindre Cancer Centre.
This sector, combined with the Public Administration, Education and Health sectors, have accounted for around 75% of Cardiff's economic growth since 1991.
Cardiff is one of the most popular tourist destination cities in the United Kingdom, receiving 18.3 million visitors in 2010 and generating £852 million for the city's economy.
Development of the area began in February 2010 and is expected to be completed by July 2011.
Main article: Transport in Cardiff Cardiff is the major transport hub in Wales and is the focus for many arterial road and rail routes that connect the city with the rest of Wales, and with England.
Cardiff Queen Street railway station is the second busiest in Wales and is the hub for routes via the Valley Lines services that connect the South Wales valleys and the Cardiff suburbs with the city centre on the former site of Temperance Town .
It is located at the eastern end of the city centre, and also provides services to Cardiff Bay.
There are eight lines which serve 20 stations in the city, 26 in the wider urban area  and more than 60 in the South Wales valleys and the Vale of Glamorgan .
Road and bus Main article: Bus transport in Cardiff The M4 is the principal motorway in the region that connects Cardiff with Swansea to the west, and Newport and London to the east.
Cardiff is served by three junctions of the M4, plus A48 when completed, will form part of the Cardiff ring-road system along with the M4 motorway between junctions 30 and 33.
It runs through Bute Park, Sophia Gardens and many other green areas within Cardiff.
It is possible to cycle the entire distance of the Trail almost completely off-road, as it largely follows the River Taff and many of the old disused railways of the Glamorganshire valleys.
On Sundays in summer the Beacons Bike Bus enables cyclists to take their bikes into the Beacons and then ride back to Cardiff along the Trail.
The Aquabus runs every hour between the city centre  to various destinations in the Bristol Channel .
See also: List of Wales dialling codes 029 is the current telephone dialling code for Cardiff, as well as for the neighbouring towns of Penarth, Dinas Powys and Caerphilly .
The dialling code is optional when dialling within the area, with it being possible to dial between any two phones within the 029 code using only the eight-digit local number.
Prior to the Big Number Change on 22 April 2000 the area had shorter, six-digit local numbers with an area code of 01222  22xx xxxx.
Cardiff Metropolitan University  has campuses in the Llandaff, Cyncoed and city centre areas, and is part of the confederal University of Wales .
The city also has two further education colleges: Cardiff and Vale College and St. David's College .
Further education is also offered at most high schools in the city.
See also: Architecture of Cardiff Cardiff has many landmark buildings such as the Millennium Stadium, Pierhead Building the Welsh National Museum and the Senedd, the home of the National Assembly for Wales.
The current castle is an elaborately decorated Victorian folly designed by William Burges for the Marquess and built in the 1870s, as an occasional retreat.
Cardiff claims to have the largest concentration of castles of any city in the world.
Other major tourist attractions are the Cardiff Bay regeneration sites which include the recently opened Wales Millennium Centre and the Senedd, and many other cultural and sites of interest including the Cardiff Bay Barrage and the famous Coal Exchange .
The New Theatre was founded in 1906 and completely refurbished in the 1980s.
Until the opening of the Wales Millennium Centre in 2004, it was the premier venue in Wales for touring theatre and dance companies.
Cardiff has over 1,000 listed buildings, ranging from the more prominent buildings such as the castles, to smaller buildings, houses and structures.
This route passes through many of Cardiff's landmarks and historic buildings.
The annual festival claims to be the UK's largest free outdoor festival, attracting over 250,000 visitors in 2007.
Cardiff hosted the National Eisteddfod in 1883, 1899, 1938, 1960, 1978 and 2008.
Cardiff is unique in Wales in having two permanent stone circles used by the Gorsedd of Bards during Eisteddfodau.
The original circle stands in Gorsedd Gardens in front of the National Museum while its 1978 replacement is situated in Bute Park .
The city also hosts smaller events.
Several out-of-town retail parks exist, such as Newport Road, Culverhouse Cross, Cardiff Gate and Cardiff Bay.
See also: Media in Wales Cardiff is the Welsh base for the main national broadcasters .
A locally based television station, Made in Cardiff, is also based in the city centre.
The South Wales Echo and Western Mail The main local newspaper, the South Wales Echo and the national paper the Western Mail are based in Park Street in the city centre.
Capital Times, Echo Extra and the South Wales edition of Metro are also based and distributed in the city.
A number of other radio stations serve the city and are based in Cardiff, including Capital FM  and Xpress Radio .
Google Street View is available throughout Cardiff.
Cardiff plays host to many high-profile sporting events at local, national and international level and in recognition of the city's commitment to sport for all Cardiff has been awarded the title of European Capital of Sport 2014.
Rugby union fans around the world have long been familiar with the Cardiff Arms Park, and its successor the Millennium Stadium, which hosted the FA Cup for six years  it took to rebuild Wembley Stadium .
In 2009, Cardiff hosted the first Ashes cricket test, between England and Australia, to be held in Wales.
Cardiff hosted eight football matches of the London 2012 Olympics .
Cardiff City F.C.  played their home games at Ninian Park from 1910 until the end of the 2008–09 season.
Cardiff Arms Park  and six Five Nations titles in nine years—and was the venue for Wales' games in the 1991 Rugby World Cup .
They play in the 10 team professional Elite Ice Hockey League .
Cardiff's only American flag football team are the Hurricanes.
They are based out of Roath Recreational Ground.
The Games involved 1,130 athletes from 35 national teams competing in 94 events.
The first ever indoor special stages of the World Rally Championship were held at the Millennium Stadium in September 2005 and have been an annual event sincve then.
His Saint's Day is ninth of February.
A number of Cardiff-based bands, such as Catatonia and Super Furry Animals were popular during the 1990s.
Stonehenge, the World's Favourite Megalithic Stone Circle" .
Cardiff music scene: 'The scene is more alive than ever'
Morris, Steven  is threatened with closure" .
Cardiff is named European Capital for Sport
Berman" .
This biographical article needs additional citations for verification .
Please help by adding reliable sources .
Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful.
Dhawal Sunil Kulkarni is an Indian cricketer as well as first class cricketer .
He took 5/33 against the Services in the Semi-final, after scoring 20* in the 1st innings.
He scored just over two thousand runs in Test cricket at an average of 37.14.
In late 1987, Manjrekar made his international debut, facing the West Indies in Delhi.
He scored five runs in the first innings, and ten in the second, when he retired hurt.
Domestically, he enjoyed success in the 1990–91 season, scoring four centuries and one half-century in eight first-class appearances.
This article is about the urban area.
For the wider region, see Auckland Region .
For other uses, see Auckland  .
The Auckland urban area  ranges to Waiwera in the north, Kumeu in the northwest, and Runciman in the south.
It is not contiguous; the section from Waiwera to Whangaparaoa Peninsula is separate from its nearest neighbouring suburb of Long Bay .
Auckland lies between the Hauraki Gulf of the Pacific Ocean to the east, the low Hunua Ranges to the south-east, the Manukau Harbour to the south-west, and the Waitakere Ranges and smaller ranges to the west and north-west.
It is one of the few cities in the world to have two harbours on two separate major bodies of water.
The 2014 Mercer Quality of Living Survey ranked Auckland 3rd place in the world on its list, The isthmus was settled by Māori around 1350, and was valued for its rich and fertile land.
Many pā  were created, mainly on the volcanic peaks.
Māori population in the area is estimated to have been about 20,000 people before the arrival of Europeans.
After losing its status as capital Auckland remained the principal city of the Auckland Province until the provincial system was abolished in 1876.
Each of the four settlements had about 800 settlers, the men being fully armed in case of emergency but spent nearly all their time breaking in the land and establishing roads.
Its population grew fairly rapidly, from 1,500 in 1841 to 12,423 by 1864.
The growth occurred similarly to other mercantile -dominated cities, mainly around the port and with problems of overcrowding and pollution.
About 50% of the population was Irish which contrasted heavily with the majority English settlers in Wellington, Christchurch or New Plymouth .
Most of the Irish, though not all, were from Protestant Ulster .
Trams and railway lines shaped Auckland's rapid expansion in the early first half of the 20th century, but soon afterward the dominance of the motor vehicle emerged and has not abated since; arterial roads and motorways have become both defining and geographically dividing features of the urban landscape.
Economic deregulation in the mid-1980s led to dramatic changes to Auckland's economy and many companies relocated their head offices from Wellington to Auckland.
The region was now the nerve centre of the national economy.
In 2004, Auckland's port handled 43% of the country's container trade.
According to the 1961 census data, Māori and Pacific Islanders comprised 5% of Auckland's population; Asians less than 1%.
Surface features include cones, lakes, lagoons, islands and depressions, and several have produced extensive lava flows.
Some of the cones and flows have been partly or completely quarried away.
The individual volcanoes are all considered extinct, although the volcanic field itself is merely dormant .
The trend is for the latest eruptions to occur in the north west of the field.
Auckland has at least 14 large lava tube caves which run from the volcanoes down towards the sea.
Some are several kilometres long.
Rangitoto's size, its symmetry, its position guarding the entrance to Waitemata Harbour and its visibility from many parts of the Auckland region make it Auckland's most iconic natural feature.
Few birds and insects inhabit the island because of the rich acidic soil and the type of flora growing out of the rocky soil.
The total coastline of Auckland is 3,702 kilometres  long.
Bridges span parts of both harbours, notably the Auckland Harbour Bridge crossing the Waitemata Harbour west of the Auckland Central Business District .
The Mangere Bridge and the Upper Harbour Bridge span the upper reaches of the Manukau and Waitemata Harbours, respectively.
In earlier times, portage paths crossed the narrowest sections of the isthmus.
Several islands of the Hauraki Gulf are administered as part of Auckland, though they are not part of the Auckland metropolitan area.
The early morning calm on the isthmus during settled weather, before the sea breeze rises, was described as early as 1853: "In all seasons, the beauty of the day is in the early morning.
Many Aucklanders use this time of day to walk and run in parks.
Auckland occasionally suffers from air pollution due to fine particle emissions.
Precipitation is relatively abundant all year round, but is higher in winter.
The west of Auckland is slightly wetter and cooler than the eastern side, with the gulf islands being warmer and drier still.
Pentecostal and charismatic churches are the fastest growing.
A small community of Coptic Orthodox Christians is also present.
Positive aspects of Auckland life are its mild climate, plentiful employment and educational opportunities, as well as numerous leisure facilities.
Meanwhile, traffic problems, the lack of good public transport, and increasing housing costs have been cited by many Aucklanders as among the strongest negative factors of living there, In 2011, Auckland is ranked by the Mercer consulting firm as 149 of 214 centres for affordability, i.e. making it one of the most affordable cities world-wide to live in, with living expense of $20000 per year., based on the comparative cost of 200 aspects of life including housing, transport, food, clothing, household goods.
Takapuna Beach located in North Shore City One of Auckland's nicknames, the "City of Sails", is derived from the popularity of sailing in the region.
Many Auckland beaches are patrolled by surf lifesaving clubs, such as Piha Surf Life Saving Club the home of Piha Rescue .
All surf lifesaving clubs are part of the Surf Life Saving Northern Region .
Most shopping malls are located in the middle- and outer-suburbs, with Sylvia Park and Westfield Albany being the largest.
The Auckland Philharmonia Orchestra is the city and region's resident full-time symphony orchestra, performing its own series of concerts and accompanying opera and ballet.
Additionally, Auckland regularly hosts the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra and Royal New Zealand Ballet .
This is the largest gift ever made to an art museum in Australasia.
The Auckland Botanic Gardens are further south, in Manurewa .
The Waitakere Ranges Regional Park to the west of Auckland offers beautiful and relatively unspoiled bush territory, as do the Hunua Ranges to the south.
North Harbour Stadium is mainly used for rugby union and Football matches, but is also used for concerts.
Vector Arena is an indoor arena.
It is primarily used for concerts and international netball matches.
It is also where the 2007 World Netball Championships were held.
North Shore Events Centre is an indoor arena, primarily used for basketball.
It is home to the New Zealand Breakers .
Western Springs Stadium hosts many large-scale concerts, as well as Speedway racing during the summer, as it has done since 1929.
They play their home games at Mt Smart Stadium in Auckland, although some games are played at Eden Park .
Auckland's first class cricket team, the Auckland Aces play their home matches at Eden Park .
It is New Zealand's largest ocean swim.
It attracts many tens of thousands of people and has been an annual March event since 1972 .
A large proportion of the technical and trades workforce is based in the industrial zones of South Auckland .
The largest commercial and industrial areas of Greater Auckland are in the southeast of Auckland City and the western parts of Manukau City, mostly bordering the Manukau Harbour and the Tamaki River estuary.
Auckland's status as the largest commercial centre of the country reflects in the high median personal income  and Wellington .
The majority are state schools, but 63 schools are state-integrated and 39 are private.
The city is home to some of the largest schools in New Zealand, including Rangitoto College in the East Coast Bays area, the largest school in New Zealand with 3056 students as of July 2015.
Housing varies considerably between some suburbs having state owned housing in the lower income neighbourhoods, to palatial waterfront estates, especially in areas close to the Waitemata Harbour.
Auckland's housing is amongst the least affordable in the world, based on comparing average house prices with average household income levels  and Auckland's high level of liveability.
In some areas, the Victorian villas have been torn down to make way for redevelopment.
The demolition of the older houses is being combated through increased heritage protection for older parts of the city.
The Auckland Council is the local council with jurisdiction over the city of Auckland, along with surrounding rural areas, parkland, and the islands of the Hauraki Gulf.
From 1989 to 2010 Auckland was governed by several separate city and district councils.
In the late 2000s  were hindering Auckland's progress.
In October 2010, Manukau City mayor Len Brown was elected the mayor of the amalgamated Auckland Council .
Twenty councillors make up the remainder of the Auckland Council governing body, elected from thirteen electoral wards.
Between 1842 and 1865, Auckland was the capital city of New Zealand.
Parliament met in what is now Old Government House on the University of Auckland 's City campus.
The capital was moved to the more centrally located Wellington in 1865.
Auckland, because of its large population, is covered by 21 general electorates and three Maori electorates, each returning one member to the New Zealand House of Representatives .
As of 2012, there are twelve list MPs in the House who contested Auckland-based electorates at the 2011 election .
Late-night services  are limited, even on weekends.
A major overhaul of Auckland's bus services is planned to be implemented by 2016, significantly expanding the reach of "frequent" bus services: those that operate at least every 15 minutes during the day and early evening, every day of the week.
Freight usually arrives at or is distributed from the port via road, though the port facilities also have rail access.
Auckland Airport, New Zealand's largest, is in the southern suburb of Mangere on the shores of the Manukau Harbour.
There are frequent services to Australia, and to other New Zealand destinations.
There are also direct connections to many locations in the South Pacific, to the United States, Asia and to Santiago in South America.
Research at Griffith University has indicated that in the last 50 years, Auckland has engaged in some of the most pro-automobile transport policies anywhere in the world.
Numerous arterial roads also provide regional and sub-regional connectivity, with many of these roads  previously used to operate Auckland's former tram network along.
Auckland has three main railway lines  with branch lines to Manukau and Onehunga .
These railway lines serve the general western, southern and central eastern parts of Auckland from the Britomart Transport Centre in downtown Auckland, the terminal station for all lines, where connections are also available to ferry and bus services.
There are plans to connect Britomart with the Western Line near Mt Eden, via an underground rail tunnel known as the City Rail Link project.
Auckland is New Zealand's largest electricity consumer, and uses around 20% of the country's total electricity each year.
Vector, which operates the majority of Auckland's local distribution system, measured maximum demand to be 1722 MW in 2011, with 8679 GWh delivered.
There are two major electricity generation stations located within the city, both of which are natural gas-fired combined cycle gas turbine stations.
Since there is not enough generation in Auckland to meet the demand, and there is very little generation north of Auckland, most of the electricity for Auckland and Northland must be transmitted from power stations in the south, mainly from Huntly Power Station and the Waikato River hydroelectric stations.
Transpower owns the national grid and is responsible for the high voltage transmission lines into and across Auckland.
Five major 220 kV transmission lines connect Auckland with the Waikato, terminating into Otahuhu and Brownhill substations.
The sub-transmission and distribution network in the Auckland region is mostly owned by Vector .
The network south of central Papakura is owned by Counties Power.
There have been several notable power outages in Auckland.
These reduced the Auckland Region's reliance on Otahuhu substation and northern and western Auckland's reliance on the Otahuhu to Henderson line.
A 'Regional Growth Strategy' has been adopted that sees limits on further subdivision and intensification of existing use as its main sustainability measures.
According to the 2006 Census projections, the medium-variant scenario shows that the population is projected to continue growing, to reach 1.93 million by 2031.
The high-variant scenario shows the region's population growing to over two million by 2031.
It was renovated in 2000 to its original condition.
A 19th century Gothic building which was renovated from 2003 to 2007 for refurbishment and structural support.
It was the location of the 2011 Rugby World Cup final.
Holding 12,000 people, it is used for sports and concert events.
A brisk walk from the Devonport ferry terminal, the cone is steeped in history, as is nearby Maungauika  .
Also published in print as Volcanic hazards at the Auckland volcanic field.
Snow falls in Auckland for first time in decades
Heritage Sites to Visit: Auckland City .
'Super city' to be in place next year, Maori seats axed
Manan Sharma  is an Indian cricketer who plays for Delhi cricket team in domestic cricket.
He is an all-rounder who bats left-handed, and bowls slow left-arm orthodox .
He is the son of former India international cricketer Ajay Sharma .
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Sood picked up three wickets for Delhi in the warmup one-day match against England in January 2013.
Can't see the image?
Request an account This article does not cite any references or sources .
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
The two concepts are frequently discussed together.
Line controls how much room the batsman has to play various shots, and sometimes dictates what shot he must play.
In this state, the batsman has little choice but to attempt to hit the ball, as not doing so could be disastrous.
Line can also be used strategically to restrict run scoring.
This dangerous tactic has since been outlawed.
See Bodyline for full details.
It is described as being either short .
A ball pitched too short rises relatively high and loses some of its pace, making it easier to hit.
A ball pitched too long does not have time to deviate horizontally in its flight, also making it easier for the batsman to hit.
For quick bowlers the "good length ball"  it is usually at about three to four metres before the batsman, though the optimal length will vary according to the state of the pitch, prevailing climatic conditions and the height and playing style of the batsman.
If the batsman does not react to the change in length quickly enough, he can be left with his weight on the back foot and, if he misses the ball with his bat, in danger of being out either bowled or leg before wicket .
September 1986) is an Indian international cricketer.
He plays for Tamil Nadu in domestic cricket and the Chennai Super Kings in Indian Premier League .
He is the fastest Indian bowler to reach the 50- and 100-wicket mark in Test cricket .
Having achieved little success as an opening batsman at junior-level cricket, Ashwin dropped down the order and turned into an off break bowler.
He made his first-class debut for Tamil Nadu in December 2006, but it was not until the 2010 Indian Premier League that he came into the limelight.
Playing for the Chennai Super Kings, he impressed with his economical bowling in the tournament, in which he was used to open the bowling on several occasions, and earned his maiden international call-up in the limited-overs formats.
He was the leading wicket-taker and player of the tournament of the 2010 Champions League Twenty20 in South Africa.
He was also part of the Indian squad that won the 2011 Cricket World Cup .
Ashwin continued to succeed in the subcontinent but proved to be less effective in other places.
The same year, he took his 100th Test wicket in his 18th match, becoming the fastest Indian bowler ito the milestone and the fastest in the world in over 80 years.
Ashwin is the only bowler of recent times apart from Sri Lanka's Ajantha Mendis to bowl the carrom ball .
He did his schooling from Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan and St. Bede's .
Ashwin plays as an all-rounder for Tamil Nadu cricket team and South Zone.
He plays for Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League .
He was the highest wicket taker of the 2010 Champions League Twenty20 tournament for Chennai Super Kings in the tournament with 13 wickets and was adjudged as the player of the tournament.
Ashwin played in all five matches of the home series against New Zealand in November–December 2010.
He played only two matches in the World Cup and made his World Cup debut in March 2011 against the West Indies with bowling figures of 2/41 in 10 overs.
He bowled his full quota in the quarterfinal against Australia at Ahmedabad and picked 2/52.
India went on to win the tournament, but Ashwin did not feature in either the semifinal or the final.
Ashwin was retained in the limited-overs squad for the England tour .
He emerged as India's best bowler of the series, which India lost 3–0, taking six wickets at an average of 25.16.
Ashwin and Ojha were the only two specialist spinners in the squad, with Harbhajan being omitted owing to his indifferent form during the England tour.
Ashwin was ineffective on India's 2011/12 tour of Australia .
He played in three Tests on the tour taking nine wickets at an average of more than 62. Ashwin returned to form during the two-match home Test series against New Zealand.
In the first Test at Hyderabad, he claimed 6/31 and 6/54 helping India seal an innings victory and was named man of the match.
His match figures of 12/85 bettered S. Venkataraghavan 's 12/152 for the best figures by an Indian bowler against New Zealand in Tests.
During the first Test of England's tour of India in late-2012, Ashwin became the fastest Indian to record 50 wickets in Test cricket as he overhauled the milestone in his ninth game.
Ashwin was highly successful on Australia's four-Test tour of India in February–March 2013.
His figures of 2/15 in four overs in the 20-overs-a-side final helped India restrict England to 124/8 and win the match by five runs.
In the two-match Test series that followed, Jadeja was preferred over Ashwin as the lone spinner in the playing eleven.
He took nine wickets in four matches of the Asia Cup and finished as the joint-third highest wicket-taker of the tournament.
Ashwin was part of the Indian team that toured England in 2014 .
He played his first match of the Test series only in the fourth game in which he scored 40 and 46 not out but went wicketless in an innings defeat for India.
He took three wickets in the last match, which was another innings defeat.
With India winning the series 3–1, Ashwin took seven wickets from four matches at an average of 24.85 and economy rate of less than 4.5.
He was also selected for India's tour of Australia in 2014-15.
He was awarded the Man of the Series.
Ashwin became the fastest Indian bowler to reach 100 test wickets as he got to the milestone in his 18th Test match.
The previous record holder was legendary Indian spinner Erapalli Prasanna who got there in his 20th test.
He achieved this double for the first time in his third Test against West Indies in 2011 when he made 103 and took 5/156 in the first innings.
He repeated the same feat in the Kolkata test against West Indies in November 2013 where he took 2/52 in the 1st innings and 3/46 in the 2nd innings and scored 124 in India's 1st innings.
Other Indians to have done this once are Vinoo Mankad in 1952 and Polly Umrigar in 1962.
This feat had only been achieved 26 times previously in world cricket, the last occasion being by Jacques Kallis in 2002.
Ashwin is the only one to do it twice.
This was also the second-highest partnership for India against West Indies for any wicket in Tests.
In December 2012, Ashwin completed 500 runs in his 11th Test cricket match.
Ashwin is also the third Indian cricketer to be awarded the Man of the Match  on debut.
Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan achieved this feat after Ashwin.
Ashwin became the fastest Indian to record 50 wickets in Test matches as he overhauled the milestone in his ninth game.
He achieved it when he dismissed the England opener Nick Compton on 16 November 2012 during the second day of the first Test at Ahmedabad .
Ashwin claimed his 28th wicket of Border-Gavaskar Trophy  at the Feroz Shah Kotla, New Delhi.
The previous record of 27 had been achieved by Kumble against Australia too, during the 2004–05 edition of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy.
Retrieved on 2013-12-23.
South Africa won the Test series 2—1.
Virender Sehwag captained India after Rahul Dravid was ruled out for rest of the series following an injury.
Gibbs remained unbeaten on 93 while Kallis and Pollock chipped in with 49 and 37 respectively.
Irfan Pathan was the pick of the batsmen scoring 47 runs.
This was India's first Twenty20 International ever.
India put on another abysmal batting performance scoring just 200 off the allocated 50 overs.
Mongia and Dhoni chipped in with useful 40's.
South Africa reached the target in just 31.2 overs.
This was also India's first test victory in South African soil.
Look up not out in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
A batsman's score is often appended with an asterisk to indicate that he was not out; for example, '10*' is read '10 not out'.
At least one batsman will be not out at the end of an innings, because once ten batsmen are out, the eleventh will have no partner to bat on with.
A batsman who retires hurt is considered not out; an uninjured batsman who retires is considered retired out .
This argument is prevailing among cricket statisticians, who have used this method of collecting batting averages since the 18th century.
Laxman bats right-handed and occasionally bowls off-spin.
He is noted for his superb timing and the ability to hit against the spin, reminiscent of his role model Mohammed Azharuddin .
Laxman is particularly noted for the skilful use of his supple wrists, which allow him to flick the ball to various places, but usually through the leg side.
Laxman was born in Hyderabad in Telangana .
Laxman is known for his "wristy, willowy and sinuous" style, one which is technically fluid at its best.
Laxman's on-side playing capability is comparable with his fellow Hyderabadi Mohammed Azharuddin 's.
The Australians once admitted that they did not know where to bowl to him.
At the start of his career, Laxman was rated by Geoffrey Boycott as one of India's best current players of the hard  ball.
But Laxman came into his own only when he was asked to bat in the middle order.
His 281 is rated by many as the best ever innings played by an Indian batsman.
Laxman made his Under-19 debut for India against Australia in February 1994.
Laxman made his first-class debut for Hyderabad against Punjab in the quarter-final match of 1992–93 Ranji Trophy season.
Laxman returned to playing first-class cricket in 1999 to regain his place in the national team.
His performance was rewarded when, in January 2000, he was recalled in the Indian squad for the Australian tour.
Australia's tour of India Laxman's career changed dramatically in the home series against Australia .
He had scores of 69, 69*, 74, 1, 43, 130, 65* and 23 in that series.
But his form dropped during India's tour of New Zealand in 2002/03.
He won the Man of the Series award for his impressive batting performances in the two Test match series.
This was their first Test victory in Australia in two decades.
India went on to post 705/7 in their first innings which is their highest total in Test cricket.
During this series, Ian Chappell described Laxman as Very Very Special Laxman.
Decline of form However, Laxman's form was on the decline since the series against Australia.
In November 2006, he was selected in the test squad for India's tour of South Africa.
He passed the 5000 run landmark in the first day of the final test.
After the tests he joined Lancashire as their overseas player in place of Brad Hodge .
He played in five games of the county championship and showed glimpses of his sublime batting.
They just missed out by 25 runs and subsequently lost the Championship to Sussex.
This ensured his place on the tour of Australia which would be his third to that country.
Sublime form from end of 2007 till May 2011Laxman's good form continued in the 2007/08 Test series against Australia with him scoring 109 against Australia on the second day of the controversial Sydney Test to put India back into the contest.
It was his 12th hundred in Test matches, and his 5th against Australia.
He hit 51 in the first innings of the final Test at Adelaide.
He finished as the second highest run-getter for India in that series, only behind Sachin Tendulkar .
He, like all other Indian batsmen, struggled in Sri Lanka against the spin duo of Muttiah Muralitharan and Ajantha Mendis later in July–August that year.
Laxman was dismissed by Mendis on all five occasions in that series.
He also crossed the 6000-run milestone during the series.
During the third Test at the Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi, Laxman scored an unbeaten 200 in the first innings with characteristic use of his wrists and flicks through the leg side.
In the same innings, Gautam Gambhir scored 206, Laxman and Gambhir becoming the first pair of batsmen to score double-centuries in the same innings for India, and the first to do so against Australia.
This was his second double-century in Test cricket with the previous one coming against the same opponents.
He made an unbeaten 59 in the second innings and was named Man of the Match.
The match was also the last game of India's spin wizard Anil Kumble who was also the captain of the team.
In 2009, Laxman continued to be in brilliant form.
He had scored 76 and 124* in the 2nd Test at Napier in New Zealand.
Laxman scored two fifties in the next two games as India went on to win both matches by an innings.
He injured himself during the first match of the two-match Test series in Bangladesh in January 2010 after scoring another unbeaten half-century.
The injury forced him to sit out for three weeks and he returned to action only during the final Test against South Africa held in Kolkata .
The test was eventually won by India by an innings and 57 runs in the last 10 minutes of the fifth day's play, despite centuries in both innings from South African batsman Hashim Amla .
He also passed 7000 Test runs during the innings.
He was awarded the Man of the Match for this brilliant effort.
He and paceman Ishant Sharma put on 81 to take the score to 205 before Sharma fell.
Laxman ended on 73 not out.
He was ruled out of the remaining matches of the series due to his injury.
In November, he helped India recover from 15/5 in the second innings of the first Test against New Zealand at Ahmedabad and the match was drawn.
India struggled to cope with Dale Steyn in the first innings before getting bundled out for 205.
Laxman's 38 was the highest score in that innings.
South Africa were bundled out for 215 giving India an 87-run win that helped level the series 1–1.
He was awarded the Man of the Match for his match-winning innings of 96.
In three test matches, Laxman scored three consecutive fifties including two scores in eighties against the West Indies during India's tour of West Indies in June 2011.
June 2011 to Retirement During India's Tour to England, Laxman scored just two half-centuries in eight innings as India went down 0–4 to England.
This was India's first Test series loss since the 2007/08 India Tour of Australia.
Laxman got out with the pull shot frequently in this series, which otherwise he is good at.
Laxman was adjudged Man of the match.
India went on to win the series 1–0.
Laxman again failed to live to his expectations during India's tour of Australia in November 2011, as India went down 0–4 to Australia with Laxman scoring only two half centuries in eight innings.
The Deccan Chargers bought him at the auction for $375,000 and named him the captain for the first season.
Adam Gilchrist took over as the captain and led the side in the next two seasons as well.
His only half-century of the tournament  came against Royal Challengers Bangalore .
However, he struggled with the bat in the next two seasons and sat out of the tournament after playing only 5–6 matches.
At the mega-auction in 2011, Laxman was bought by the newly formed franchise of Kochi Tuskers Kerala for $400,000.
This time, though, he was injured after the first three games and missed the rest of the season.
In the first match against Royal Challengers, he opened the innings with Brendon McCullum and scored an attractive 36 from 29 deliveries.
But, the Kochi franchise was terminated later that year and all the players of the team were put in the auction in 2012.
On 18 August 2012, Laxman announced his retirement from international cricket.
Although he was selected for the upcoming New Zealand series, he opted not to play in the series but he will play in domestic cricket for Hyderabad and the Indian Premier League .
His innings of 281 against Australia at Kolkata in 2001 was ranked sixth in Wisden 's list of 100 great Test innings in the history of the game.
He scored 1217 runs at an average of 110.63 at Eden gardens.
He was forced to miss the limited-overs part of the England tour and the subsequent one-day series against the same opponents in India, but recovered in time to play against West Indies.
"There is no risk about it ," Ishant told reporters after India's practice session on Sunday.
Being the senior-most bowler in the team, it's really great.
It's difficult to express this kind of feeling actually.
But injuries are part and parcel of the game.
You have to play the role of the senior when someone is injured.
Whoever you have in the team, you need to go ahead and give your best shot."Given
India can't produce fast bowlers.
Now all the three fast bowlers are consistently clocking 90 miles per hour.
"The only thing you can do is to be consistent and bowl in the right areas.
As the day progresses, you get reverse-swing.
Australia tour is after this series.
We will get two practice matches there to get accustomed to the conditions.
In India, the wickets are like this only.
Also we were doing bowling faster than Windies bowlers.
I hope Yadav and Varun should both be selected with Ishant.
He should be knowing the work load and his body balance better than the spectators and his fans.
I can't wait to see him come down to Australia in the summer and work some magic.
I have always felt for him having to bowl on some of the flat dust bowls over in the sub-continent.
He has not lost his pace, he has been overbowled in less than perfect fast bowling conditions.
Now he thinks he can go with out surgery, hope he knows what he is doing.
Indian selectors should continue with the trend and play him and other genuine quick bowlers only for tests.
Once India are no longer No 1, it hardly matters whether the galacticas who made it possible are available.
A new order beckons and the Bhajjis of the past will realise that it is better to be humble and not so sure of their continuance.
Also we were doing bowling faster than Windies bowlers.
I hope Yadav and Varun should both be selected with Ishant.
He should be knowing the work load and his body balance better than the spectators and his fans.
I can't wait to see him come down to Australia in the summer and work some magic.
I have always felt for him having to bowl on some of the flat dust bowls over in the sub-continent.
He has not lost his pace, he has been overbowled in less than perfect fast bowling conditions.
Now he thinks he can go with out surgery, hope he knows what he is doing.
Indian selectors should continue with the trend and play him and other genuine quick bowlers only for tests.
Once India are no longer No 1, it hardly matters whether the galacticas who made it possible are available.
A new order beckons and the Bhajjis of the past will realise that it is better to be humble and not so sure of their continuance.
India really need Ishant to reach the level when he first came on the scene.
Please could Cricket India look after him and Aaron and Yadav and help them all to develop as bowlers.
India really need Ishant to reach the level when he first came on the scene.
Please could Cricket India look after him and Aaron and Yadav and help them all to develop as bowlers.
Once India are no longer No 1, it hardly matters whether the galacticas who made it possible are available.
A new order beckons and the Bhajjis of the past will realise that it is better to be humble and not so sure of their continuance.
Indian selectors should continue with the trend and play him and other genuine quick bowlers only for tests.
Now he thinks he can go with out surgery, hope he knows what he is doing.
I can't wait to see him come down to Australia in the summer and work some magic.
I have always felt for him having to bowl on some of the flat dust bowls over in the sub-continent.
He has not lost his pace, he has been overbowled in less than perfect fast bowling conditions.
He should be knowing the work load and his body balance better than the spectators and his fans.
If you wish, you can browse the Help menu or the Help directory for your desired help page instead.
Just type what you are looking for in there and then press .
See Help:Searching for more details.
There are other ways to browse and explore Wikipedia articles; many can be found at Portal:Contents .
Also see our disclaimer for cautions about Wikipedia's limitations.
Or play the Wikipedia Adventure to learn to edit in an hour.
The Cheatsheet can remind you of basic wiki markup.
Be bold in improving articles!
When adding facts, please provide references so others may verify them.
If you are affiliated with the article subject, please see our conflict of interest guideline .
See the "I want to edit an article" section of this page for more information.
This will bring the matter to the attention of others who work on that article.
Check Your first article to see if your topic is appropriate, then the Article wizard will walk you through creating the article.
Once you have created an article, see Writing better articles for guidance on how to improve it and what to include .
For contributing images, audio or video files, see the Introduction to uploading images .
Then the Upload wizard will guide you through that process.
Volunteers there will attempt to answer your questions on any topic, or point you towards the information you need.
You can find also where to ask questions or make comments .
You can ask questions about using Wikipedia at the Help desk or at the Teahouse .
Volunteers will respond as soon as possible.
Examples include lists organized chronologically, grouped by theme, glossarized, or annotated.
If the user has some general idea of what he is looking for but does not know the specific terminology, the general topics lists  would be most useful.
Outlines and indices give an indication of the state of the 'pedia, the articles that have been written, and the articles that have yet to be written .
Like categories, lists are great for keeping track of changes to subject areas, using the Related Changes feature.
Unlike categories, lists are centralized, providing direct control over the contents.
Click "show" on the right to expand it.
This template is part of WikiProject Cricket which aims to expand and organise information better in articles related to the sport of cricket .
Yogesh Nagar  is an Indian cricketer .
He plays for the Delhi Ranji Trophy side and the Delhi under-16 side.
He plays for the Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League .
Steyn is widely regarded as the best fast bowler of his generation.
He currently has the best bowling strike rate of all time in Test match cricket .
Early life and Domestic career Dale Steyn grew up in the small town of Phalaborwa on the border of the world-famous wildlife haven, the Kruger National Park .
Active and energetic, Steyn was naturally drawn to sports.
His love of being outdoors led him also to more solitary activities such as bass fishing and skateboarding.
He went back to playing for the Titans after failing to impress in his first three Tests.
This time around he had more success, claiming 23 County Championship wickets in seven matches at an average of 25.86.
Dale Steyn signed to play in the Indian Premier League in 2008, playing for the Royal Challengers Bangalore .
He earned US$325,000 for his appearance in the tournament.
Steyn made his debut for South Africa on 17 December 2004 in the first Test of England's tour.
England won the match by 77 runs.
Later that year, Steyn was picked in the squad for the African XI in the Afro-Asia Cup of 2005/06, and he made his One Day International debut on 17 August 2005.
The African XI won the match, with Steyn bowling last batsman Ashish Nehra to seal victory by two runs.
South Africa slumped to defeat by an innings and 153 runs.
He picked up an injury whilst bowling early in India's first innings in the first Test at Johannesburg which prevented him from taking much further part in the game and also ruled him out of the second Test.
He returned to play in the deciding third Test at Cape Town and bowled well, taking six wickets for 88 runs in the match as South Africa clinched the match and the series.
He had mixed success in these three matches, taking wickets but proving expensive.
Steyn was picked for the Test squad to tour Pakistan in October, and played in both Tests.
Steyn was also awarded his first Test Man-of-the-Match award.
He made his Twenty20 International debut on 23 November 2007 in the one-off game against New Zealand, taking the wicket of Scott Styris and only giving up 17 runs from his four overs.
Steyn's form continued into the Test series.
Man-of-the-Series award.
It was also Australia's first home series defeat in 16 years.
Steyn was named man of the match for this performance.
Smith was eventually bowled out by Mitchell Johnson with ten balls to go.
In the first test against the Windies in the 2010 series, South Africa convincingly beat them, with Steyn take his 200th wicket, Sulimenn Benn, clean bowled .
He was bought by the Deccan Chargers for $1.2 million.
Steyn is an aggressive out-and-out fast bowler capable of bowling at speeds in excess of 150 km/h.
He is capable of generating considerable swing and is usually chosen to bowl with the new ball to maximize these attributes.
Steyn became the fastest South African to reach 200 wickets in Test matches on 10 June 2010, which he achieved in his 39th match.
Steyn became the second fastest bowler,behind Denis Lillee to reach 250 wickets in Test matches on 15 December 2011, which he achieved in his 49th match.
Also, he became the fastest South African to reach 250 wickets in Test matches surpassing Allan Donald record which he achieved in 50 test matches.
Also, he became the fastest South African to reach 300 wickets in Test matches surpassing Allan Donald record which he achieved in 63 test matches.
Steyn became the second fastest bowler,behind Muttiah Muralitharan to reach 350 wickets in Test matches on 26 December 2013, which he achieved in his 69th match.
Also, he became the fastest South African to reach 350 wickets in Test matches surpassing Shaun Pollock record which he achieved in 86 test matches.
He was unable to continue.
Africa vs New Zealand, 1st Test, at New Wanderers Stadium, Johannesburg, 8–11 November 2007" .
Africa vs West Indies, 3rd Test, at Sahara Stadium Kingsmead, Durban, 10–12 January 2008" .
Retrieved on 2013-12-23.
The 2011 tournament was awarded to the four Asian Test cricket playing countries, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh .
The International Cricket Council were sufficiently impressed with the trans-Tasman bid that it was decided to award the next World Cup to Australia and New Zealand.
This was the second time the tournament was held in Australia and New Zealand, with the first being the 1992 Cricket World Cup .
India were the defending champions, having won the tournament in 2011 .
Considerable merits of the bid included the superior venues and infrastructure, and the total support of the Australian and New Zealand governments on tax and custom issues during the tournament, according to Cricket Australia chief executive James Sutherland .
However, when it came to the voting, the Asians won by seven votes to four; according to the Pakistan Cricket Board  that turned the matter.
The format was the same as the 2011 edition: 14 teams take part in the initial stages, divided into two groups of seven; the seven teams play each other once before the top four teams from each group qualify for the quarter-finals.
Immediately after the 2011 World Cup, it was decided that the next tournament would be reduced to only feature the 10 full members.
Scotland defeated the United Arab Emirates in the final of the 2014 Cricket World Cup Qualifier and both teams qualified for the last two spots in the 2015 Cricket World Cup.
In preparation for the 2015 Cricket World Cup, the organising committee of the tournament was finalised.
With the quarter-finals being in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Wellington.
With the semi-finals played in Auckland and Sydney, with the final played in Melbourne.
The Umpire selection panel selected 20 umpires to officiate at the World Cup: five each from Australia and England, five from Asia, two each from New Zealand and South Africa and one from the West Indies.
Sri Lanka's innings ended after 44.4 overs and South Africa's target was reduced to 188 from 25 overs due to rain.
A total of 42 matches were played throughout the group stage of the tournament.
The top four teams from each pool qualified for the quarter-finals.
In the event that two or more teams are tied on points after six matches the team with the most number of wins was to be ranked higher.
If tied teams also had the same number of wins then they had to be ranked according to net run rate.
While the dates and venues are fixed, which match-up they host was subject to change to accommodate the host countries should they qualify.
Both hosts qualified for the quarter-finals; Australia played the match on 20 March in Adelaide, and New Zealand played the match on 21 March in Wellington.
If England had advanced, as they were the third-highest ranked team, they would have played in Melbourne.
Mooney was extremely close to the boundary and eight different television replays were inconclusive as to whether his foot had touched the boundary rope.
Meanwhile, Williams had walked and the umpires signalled him out.
Cricket World Cup" .
Sports World Cup to be dedicated cricket channel for 2015 tournament" .
Hasina says India won against Bangladesh in World Cup QF due to 'umpiring errors'" .
This list may not reflect recent changes .
Twitter  is an online social networking service that enables users to send and read short 140- character messages called "tweets.
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity, with more than 100 million users who in 2012 posted 340 million tweets per day.
The definition was 'a short burst of inconsequential information,' and 'chirps from birds'.
There was this path of discovery with something like that, where over time you figure out what it is.
The tipping point for Twitter's popularity was the 2007 South by Southwest Interactive  conference.
During the event, Twitter usage increased from 20,000 tweets per day to 60,000.
Reaction at the conference was highly positive.
Social software researcher danah boyd said Twitter was "owning" the conference.
In August 2010, the company appointed Adam Bain from News Corp. 's Fox Audience Network as president of revenue.
The company experienced rapid growth.
It had 400,000 tweets posted per quarter in 2007.
This grew to 100 million tweets posted per quarter in 2008.
In February 2010, Twitter users were sending 50 million tweets per day.
Atebits had developed the Apple Design Award -winning Twitter client Tweetie for the Mac and iPhone .
The application, now called "Twitter" and distributed free of charge, is the official Twitter client for the iPhone, iPad and Mac.
From September through October 2010, the company began rolling out "New Twitter", an entirely revamped edition of twitter.com.
As of November 1, 2010, the company confirmed that the "New Twitter experience" had been rolled out to all users.
On December 8, 2011, Twitter overhauled its website once more to feature the "Fly" design, which the service says is easier for new users to follow and promotes advertising.
The site's layout has been compared to that of Facebook .
Twitter's director of business development explained that it is important to have Twitter content where Twitter users go.
On March 21, 2012, Twitter celebrated its sixth birthday while also announcing that it has 140 million users and sees 340 million tweets per day.
The number of users is up 40% from their September 2011 number, which was said to have been at 100 million at the time.
On December 18, 2012, Twitter announced it had surpassed 200 million monthly active users .
Twitter hit 100 million monthly active users in September 2011.
As of September 2013, the company's data showed that 200 million users send over 400 million tweets daily, with nearly 60% of tweets sent from mobile devices.
CardSpring enables retailers to offer online shoppers coupons that they can automatically sync to their credit cards in order to receive discounts when they shop in physical stores.
The partnership is intended to help businesses use Twitter data to understand their customers, businesses and other trends.
On October 4, 2010, Williams made an announcement saying that he will stay with the company and "be completely focused on product strategy."
Dorsey rejoined Twitter in March 2011, as executive chairman focusing on product development.
In September 2011, board members and investors Fred Wilson and Bijan Sabet resigned from Twitter's Board of Directors.
In October 2012, Twitter announced it had hired former Google executive Matt Derella to become their new director of business agency development.
Twitter has become internationally identifiable by its signature bird logo.
The original logo was in use from its launch in March 2006 until September 2010.
A slightly modified version succeeded the first style when the website underwent its first redesign.
This detail had previously been confirmed when the Boston Celtics' director of interactive media asked Twitter co-founder Biz Stone about it in August 2011.
On June 5, 2012, Twitter unveiled its third logo redesign, replacing Larry the Bird with an updated icon simply named as the "Twitter Bird."
As of this logo revision, the word "Twitter" and the lowercase letter "t" are no longer used, with the bird becoming the sole symbol for the company's branding.
Tweets are publicly visible by default, but senders can restrict message delivery to just their followers.
Users can tweet via the Twitter website, compatible external applications  available in certain countries.
Users may subscribe to other users' tweets – this is known as "following" and subscribers are known as "followers"  In addition, users can block those who have followed them.
Twitter allows users to update their profile via their mobile phone either by text messaging or by apps released for certain smartphones and tablets.
When you choose to follow another Twitter user, that user's tweets appear in reverse chronological order on your main Twitter page.
In late 2009, the "Twitter Lists" feature was added, making it possible for users to follow ad hoc lists of authors instead of individual authors.
Trending topics are sometimes the result of concerted efforts and manipulations by preteen and teenaged fans of certain celebrities or cultural phenomena, particularly musicians like Lady Gaga  novels.
Twitter has altered the trend algorithm in the past to prevent manipulation of this type, with limited success.
There have been controversies surrounding Twitter trending topics: Twitter has censored hashtags that other users found offensive.
The owners of verified accounts can also access additional features that are not available to standard Twitter-account holders.
These features include:The ability to choose how their notifications and mentions are presented.
Previously, the OAuth authentication method was optional, it is now compulsory and the user-name/password authentication method has been made redundant and is no longer functional.
This feature was added onto Twitter so if the viewer doesn't understand what the tweet means, they can click on the sites to read more about what the person is talking about.
Twitter is ranked as one of the ten-most-visited websites worldwide by Alexa's web traffic analysis.
Adults are just catching up to what teens have been doing for years,
It also stated that five percent of users accounted for seventy-five percent of all activity, and that New York City has more Twitter users than other cities.
According to Quancast, twenty-seven million people in the US used Twitter as of September 3, 2009.
In an article published on January 6, 2012, Twitter was confirmed to be the biggest social media network in Japan, with Facebook following closely in second.
Score confirmed this, stating that Japan is the only country in the world where Twitter leads Facebook.
In December 2011, the Saudi prince Alwaleed bin Talal invested $300 million in Twitter.
The company was valued at $8.4 billion at the time.
In July 2009, some of Twitter's revenue and user growth documents were published on TechCrunch after being illegally obtained by Hacker Croll .
The documents projected 2009 revenues of US$400,000 in the third quarter and US$4 million in the fourth quarter along with 25 million users by the end of the year.
The projections for the end of 2013 were US$1.54 billion in revenue, US$111 million in net earnings, and 1 billion users.
On April 13, 2010, Twitter announced plans to offer paid advertising for companies that would be able to purchase "promoted tweets" to appear in selective search results on the Twitter website, similar to Google Adwords' advertising model.
Users' photos can generate royalty-free revenue for Twitter, and an agreement with World Entertainment News Network  was announced in May 2011.
Twitter generated US$139.5 million in advertising sales during 2011.
The self-service advertising platform was launched in March 2012 to American Express card members and merchants in the U.S. on an invite-only basis.
Twitter later reported that numerous small businesses and people who used the self-service tool provided feedback that indicated they were impressed by the feature.
Twitter places great reliance on open-source software .
After the huge volume of tweets coming in caused problems reading from and writing to these databases, the company decided that the system needed re-engineering.
The process itself is managed by FlockDB and takes an average of 350 ms.
Krikorian explained that Twitter achieved this record by blending its homegrown and open source technologies.
The service's application programming interface  and sort out by asser tickers according to its own algorithm.
About 13,000 volunteers helped with translating the menu options.
Twitter had approximately ninety-eight percent uptime in 2007 .
May 2008 – Twitter's new engineering team made architectural changes to deal with the scale of growth.
Stability issues resulted in down time or temporary feature removal.
It was announced that Twitter aims to return its IM service pending necessary major work.
June 25, 2009 – Twitter ran slowly for some time after over 50,000 tweets on Michael Jackson 's death were recorded in an hour.
September 22, 2009 – The identifier exceeded the limit for 32-bit unsigned integers  again breaking some third-party clients.
No connection between the hackers and Iran has been established.
July 26, 2012 – Twitter users in the UK could not post messages for part of the day in advance of the 2012 Summer Olympics .
Twitter messages are public, but users can also send private messages.

A security vulnerability was reported on April 7, 2007, by Nitesh Dhanjani and Rujith.
Twitter launched the beta version of their "Verified Accounts" service on June 11, 2009, allowing famous or notable people to announce their Twitter account name.
For example, comedian Conan O'Brien 's account, which had been set to follow only one person, was changed to receive nearly 200 malicious subscriptions.
In response to Twitter's security breaches, the US Federal Trade Commission  brought charges against the service; the charges were settled on June 24, 2010.
Twitter announced plans to use Dasient to help remove hateful advertisers on the website.
Twitter cited France and Germany as examples, where pro- Nazi content is illegal.
Previously, deleted tweets were removed in all countries.
The "Do Not Track" feature works only on sites that have agreed to the service.
A petition for making the process of complaining about harassment easier had collected over 100,000 signatures.
In August 2014, Twitter said that in certain cases it would delete pictures of people who had died after requests from family members and "authorized individuals".
The move followed controversy over the sharing of images on Twitter showing the killing of American journalist James Foley .
The change make these users subject to Irish and European data protection laws.
On April 17, 2012, Twitter announced it would implement an "Innovators Patent Agreement" which would obligate Twitter to only use its patents for defensive purposes.
The agreement went into effect in 2012.
It was neither intended nor designed for high performance communication, but the idea that it could be used for emergency communication certainly was not lost on the originators, who knew that the 