Domestic and first-class career Ishant plays for Delhi in domestic cricket and has taken 68 wickets in 14  first-class games, Ishant toured England with the India Under-19s in 2006 and Pakistan in 2006–07.
He played three youth tests and six youth One Day Internationals for India.
This was the highest amount paid for any bowler in tournament.
Later on, he was called for the tour of England in July–August 2007.
Sharma was left out in the Boxing Day Test at Melbourne during the Border–Gavaskar Trophy as India retained their main fast bowlers, Zaheer Khan and RP Singh.
He bowled reasonably in the match, however without much luck.
Although he had little success, the management retained him for the third Test match at Perth.
On the fourth day of the match he bowled an exceptional spell to Australian captain Ricky Ponting that resulted in his wicket and helped India claim victory.
He ended the match with figures of 4/38 and named Man of the Match.
He was noted for achieving reverse swing on balls sometimes as young as eight overs, and along with senior opening bowler Zaheer Khan, troubled the touring Australians.
However, in 2009, Ishant's form slumped, and he was dropped for the second Test against Sri Lanka, replaced by Sreesanth .
Ishant provided Laxman with support during an 81-run partnership in which he contributed 31 valuable runs.
In July and August the team played four Tests in England .
India won the series 2–1.
More catches are taken by wicket-keepers than by any other fielding position.
The more skilled the keeper, the faster the bowling to which he is able to "stand up", for instance Godfrey Evans often stood up to Alec Bedser .
However, the modern-day keeper is also expected to possess reasonable batting skill, suiting him for the middle order at least.
Wicket-keepers who are also capable of batting at the top of the order are known informally as keeper/batsmen.
They were never able to consistently choose between the two until 1998, when Russell began to fade: prior to that, they had regularly swapped the role, often with Stewart maintaining his place when not wicket-keeping thanks to his batting skill.
The keeper is the only fielder allowed to touch the ball with protective equipment, typically large padded gloves with webbing between the index finger and thumb, but no other webbing.
The protection offered by the gloves is not always adequate.
The England keeper Alan Knott sometimes placed steaks inside his gloves for added cushioning.
Using the book creator After the book creator has been enabled, the box as seen below is shown above each wiki page.
Add this page to your book Adds the currently viewed article  to your book.
On that page, you can change the order of the articles in your book and structure them using chapters.
This tool allows to create books quickly.
This will disable the Book creator and delete your book .
Click on this link, and the linked article will be added to your book.
The Add this page to your book link will have changed into Add this category to your book.
Click on this new link, and all the articles in that category will be added to your book.
Relevant categories may be found at the very bottom of Wikipedia articles.
Categories can also be added by hovering category links.
A highlight of Australia's early history was the 1882 Test match against England at The Oval .
In this match Fred Spofforth took 7/44 in the game's fourth innings to save the match by preventing England from making their 85-run target.
To this day, the contest is one of the fiercest rivalries in sport.
It participated in between the 1897–98 English tour of Australia and the 1910–11 South African tour of Australia.
Victor Trumper became one of Australia's first sporting heroes, and was widely considered Australia's greatest batsman before Bradman and one of the most popular players.
His early death in 1915 at the age of 37 from kidney disease caused national mourning.
This was the last series before the war, and no more cricket was played by Australia for eight years, with Tibby Cotter being killed in Palestine during the war.
The side was on the whole inconsistent in the latter half of the 1920s, losing its first home Ashes series since the 1911–12 season in 1928–29.
Jackson died of tuberculosis at the age of 24 three years later, after playing eight tests.
The team was widely considered unstoppable, winning nine of its next ten Tests.
The tactic, although effective, was widely considered by Australian crowds as vicious and unsporting.
The Australian team managed to overcome the damaging series, winning their next tour of England in 1934.
Sir Donald Bradman is widely considered the greatest batsman of all time.
It is almost 40 runs above the next highest average.
He was knighted in 1949 for services to cricket.
He is generally considered one of Australia's greatest sporting heroes.
Australia was by far the most successful team of the 1940s, being undefeated throughout the decade, winning two Ashes series against England and its first Test series against India .
Of 31 first-class games played during the tour, they won 23 and drew 8, including winning the five match Test series 4–0, with one draw.
Australia ended winning by 45 runs, an identical result to the first Test match.
Packer secretly signed leading international cricketers to his competition, including 28 Australians.
Graham Yallop was named as captain for the Ashes, with Kim Hughes taking over for the 1979–80 tour of India.
Rodney Hogg still managed to take 41 wickets in his debut series, an Australian record.
Greg Chappell was reinstated as captain.
The rebel tours were funded by the South African Cricket Board to compete against its national side, which had been banned—along with many other sports, including Olympic athletes—from competing internationally, due to the South African government's racist apartheid policies.
These players were handed three-year suspensions by the Australian Cricket Board which greatly weakened the player pool for the national sides, as most were either current representative players or on the verge of gaining honours.
Request an account Wikipedia is made by people like you.
Chennai won by 58 runs Player of the match: Murali Vijay Chennai Super Kings won the toss and elected to bat.
The Chennai score was also supplemented by 22 runs from the captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni .
A quick loss of wickets towards the end provided some consolation for Royal Challengers Bangalore .
Needing 206 runs to win, Royal Challengers Bangalore lost their opening batsman and Orange Cap holder Chris Gayle early to Ravichandran Ashwin .
Chris Gayle won the Orange Cap for maximum runs in the tournament .

This list may not reflect recent changes .
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
However, he couldn't play any match.
In addition to Cook's promotion, seam bowler Stuart Broad was named captain of the Twenty20 side and England went into the home series with Sri Lanka with different captains for each format of the game.
His good form continues into the next match where he made scores of 96 and 106.
In the final match of the series Cook made 55 in his only innings of the match, meaning he had scored two centuries and two half centuries in his four innings.
Cook's first game as full-time captain against Sri Lanka at the Oval saw England victorious by 110 runs.
England went on to win the series 3–2, with Cook top scoring for England in the series with 298 runs in five matches.
Cook only scored seven runs in the entire match in the next game, although England again won to go 2-0 up.
In the final match of the series he made 34 as England won the series 4-0.
After making scores of 23 and 12 in the next two matches, Cook finished off the series in good form, making 50 in the final game as England won by six wickets.
Cook scored 60 in the first match but England lost by 126 runs.
In the final match of the series he returned to form, making 60.
Pakistan, Sri Lanka and West Indies In the winter of 2012, England struggled in Test matches in the sub continent.
They were beaten by Pakistan in the first match of the series, with Cook being dismissed for single figures in both innings.
He made 94 in the next game, the only time he passed 50 in the tour, but it was not enough to prevent England losing the match and going 2-0 down.
Cook was out cheaply in the first innings as England were again bowled out for less than 200, and although he made 49 in the next innings it wasn't enough to prevent another England defeat.
England went on to win the match by five wickets.
They also won the next match of the series, with Cook performing well and making an unbeaten 43 in England's second innings to help guide them to victory.
South Africa and India England struggled in the three match series against South Africa, eventually losing the series 2-0.
Cook started the series well, making yet another century in the first innings of the first match between the two sides.
The third match was over shadowed when Kevin Pietersen was dropped following an argument with senior England players.
Cook scored just ten runs in the match as England lost to lose the series 2-0 and lose their spot at the top of the Test rankings.
England lost the match and series finished 2-2.
England won the series 3–0; it was Cook's first Ashes series as captain.
On 29 August 2012, Cook became England's Test captain after previous Test captain Andrew Strauss retired from all forms of cricket.
Cook made 74 in the fourth game but England still lost and India took an unassailable 3–1 series lead.
England clinched the series by winning the decider, in which Cook made 46 to secure the series for England.
Cook was not at his best in the final two games of the two, although the nature of the wickets meant that the batsmen found it easy to score runs, and so the series ended 0–0.
Cook lead England in the 2013 Champions trophy, and they won their first game against Australia.
It was also Cook's first game as captain against Australia.
Cook made 59 against Sri Lanka, but England lost the game meaning they were not assured of their place in the next round.
Cook top scored with 64 as England narrowly beat New Zealand to book their place in the semi final.
In the first test against New Zealand on home soil, Cook got made good starts in both innings but was unable to convert these scores past fifty.
Despite this England won the test match.
This meant that England remained undefeated in Test series under Cook, winning two and drawing one.
Back to Back Ashes Series This section possibly contains original research .
Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations .
Statements consisting only of original research should be removed.
The 2013 home Ashes series marked Cook's first Ashes series as captain.
England went into the series as strong favourites, with Australia recently having parted company with their coach.
They were bowled out for 296, meaning England won the match by 14 runs.
Although Cook only managed 20 runs in the next match, England cruised to victory, winning by 347 runs.
Despite this, Cook was generally praised for the way he had led the side.
Cook himself played no part in the series, being replaced in the side by Michael Carberry.
They were humbled in the first test, losing by 381 runs.
Cook top-scored in England's second innings with 65 but it wasn't enough as England slumped to defeat.
The fourth test saw Cook make another 50, but it wasn't enough to prevent another heavy defeat.
England lost the final and the series 5–0, with questions being asked of Cook's captaincy.
Cook scored 35 in the third match as England finally won their first game of the tour.
However, they went on to lose the series 4–1.
Sri Lanka and India Cook continued in his role as captain for the home series against Sri Lanka.
He was out for just one in the next match as Sri Lanka levelled the series at 2–2.
In the deciding match Cook made 56, his first half century of the summer, although it was not enough to prevent England losing the series 3–2. 
In the first Test he scored just five runs.
Cook's poor form continued in the second Test when he made scores of 10 and 22 as England lost the game to go 1–0 down in the series.
He then went on to score 70 not out in second innings before declaring as England won the match to level the series.
Cook made 79 in the final match of the series, which England again won to seal the series 3–1.
Following the win, Cook revealed he had considered his position as captain but was convinced by his wife to continue.
They went 2–0 down in the series after losing the next game, although Cook batted well, making 44.
However, the team bounced back to win the final game of the series in convincing fashion, with Cook making 46.
However, he did not perform well in the first two matches, making scores of 10 and 22 as England lost both games.
In the fifth match he scored 20, as England won to keep the series alive.
On 19 December 2014, Cook was removed as one-day captain, and replaced by Eoin Morgan .
Cook took advantage of favourable batting conditions in the following Test, making 76 in an opening partnership of 125 in England's first innings with Trott .
It was England's first century opening partnership since March 2013, and Cook's innings took him past Alec Stewart to become England's second-highest run-scorer in Tests.
In the third test in Barbados, Cook scored 105 in England's first innings, his first Test century in almost two years.
The English team then welcomed the Black Caps in May, with the first Test of the two-match series at Lord's.
In the first Test, Cook continued his resurgence with his 27th century in Tests, scoring 162 in the second innings as England ultimately made 478 all out.
England went on to win the game by 124 runs to go 1–0 up in the series. 
Cook continued his good form in the second Test.
He made 75 in England's first innings as they posted 350 to equal New Zealand's first innings score. 
India recorded their first Test victory, in their 24th match, against England at Madras in 1952.
However, they did not win again in the remainder of the decade and lost badly to strong Australian and English sides.
They managed to draw home series against Pakistan and Australia, and another series against England. 
In this same period, India also won its first series outside the subcontinent, against New Zealand in 1967–68. 
This period also saw the emergence of two of India's best ever batsmen, Sunil Gavaskar and Gundappa Viswanath .
Indian pitches have had tendency to support spin and the spin quartet exploited this to create collapses in opposing batting line-ups.
These players were responsible for the back-to-back series wins in 1971 in the West Indies and in England, under the captaincy of Ajit Wadekar .
There were six fifties, the highest being 70 by Mohinder Amarnath .
The innings was the eighth instance in Test cricket where all eleven batsmen reached double figures.
In 1984, India won the Asia Cup and in 1985, won the World Championship of Cricket in Australia.
India's Test series victory in 1986 against England remained the last Test series win by India outside the subcontinent for the next 19 years.
The 1980s saw Gavaskar and Kapil Dev  at the pinnacle of their careers.
Kapil Dev later became the highest wicket-taker in Test cricket with 434 wickets.
The period was also marked by an unstable leadership, with Gavaskar and Kapil exchanging the captaincy several times.
The addition of Sachin Tendulkar and Anil Kumble to the national side in 1989 and 1990 further improved the team.
Despite this, during the 1990s, India did not win any of its 33 Tests outside the subcontinent while it won 17 out of its 30 Tests at home.
Sangakkara struggled when England toured Sri Lanka in 2012.
Sri Lanka later won the Test match.
He followed this up with 192 in the game, again missing out on the double century.
Sri Lanka drew the next two matches meaning Sri Lanka won the series 1–0.
On the Sri Lankan tour of Bangladesh in 2014, Sangakarra hit his highest test score to date with 319 in the first innings of the second test.
The two also hold the record for the highest partnership for any wicket in Test matches, scoring 624 runs for the 3rd wicket against South Africa in July 2006.
Sri Lanka went on to win the game and the tournament.
Afterwards Jayawardene also followed him into retirement.
He also became the second most prolific half-century maker in One-day internationals during this match.
He was caught on 33 in his last innings in home soil.
On 14 February 2015, Sangakkara became the second highest run scorer in One-Day International history, by surpassing Australian Ricky Ponting .
He said that Sangakarra was disillusioned by some of the actions of the Sri Lanka Cricket Board in the past, and now that attempts have been made to change personnel and practices, Sangakkara should reconsider his decision.
Sangakkara did not give an answer to the statement.
On 27 June 2015, Sangakkara officially announced his retirement from Test cricket as well.
He retired from Test cricket after the second Test match against India .
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation recognized Sangakkara as the "Player of the Century" citing many of Sangakkara's past memories and achievements.
Several momentous were given for the behalf of his cricket career and Gavaskar invited him to the former cricketer's club.
Indian captain Virat Kohli describnd the new fielding standards put in place by new coach Bob Simpson, the team was restructured and gradually rebuilt their cricketing stocks.
The Australians went on to the West Indies and had their chances but ended up losing the series.
However they bounced back and beat the Indians in their next Test series.
The Australian team was marred by the death of Phillip Hughes on November 27, 2014.
In 2015 Australia won the 2015 Cricket World Cup .
He completed his primary education at Our Lady of Velankani,  after which he was selected for the Mumbai Under-20.
He was later chosen for India's Under-17 and Under-19 teams, and made his mark at the 2006 U-19 World Cup in Sri Lanka, finishing 11th on the ranking of top run-makers in the tournament.
Rohit Sharma was first selected for the limited-overs matches on India's tour to Ireland in 2007 .
Rohit Sharma was called into the Indian Test team in February 2010 as the only reserve batsman.
When V. V. S. Laxman failed to recover from an injury, Sharma was set to make his debut, but injured himself playing football in the warm-up on the first morning of the match.
For example, during the England–New Zealand Test Match at Lord's in 1986, England's specialist keeper, Bruce French was injured during England's first innings.
In the second Test, however, both were relieved of their wicketkeeping duties, allowing Luke Ronchi to make his Test debut, having played many matches for both Australia and New Zealand.
Occasional wicket-keepers are players that usually play in other roles but sometimes keep wicket.
The following top 10 wicket-keepers for dismissals in Test cricket.
Though he impressed in patches, Ishant remained inconsistent and only managed five wickets at an average of 90.20 in the four-Test series.
He was ruled out of the West Indies tour and missed the start of the Test series in England.
Vihari played for Sunrisers Hyderabad in the sixth edition of the Indian Premier League in 2013.
In one of the league matches against Royal Challengers Bangalore in Hyderabad, Vihari opened the bowling attack as an off-spinner and removed Chris Gayle for just 1.
He also scored an unbeaten 46 in the same match while chasing.
Vihari was responsible for one-third of Hyderabad's total in the innings against Andhra in 2013/14 Ranji Trophy opener at Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium .
He scored 75 in the first innings before being dismissed by Stephen then scored unbeaten 68 runs.
Category:Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Administrators: Please do not delete this category even if it is empty!This category may be empty occasionally or even most of the time.
It is used for maintenance of the Wikipedia project and is not part of the encyclopedia.
Do not include this category in content categories.
The first takes some of the speed out of the delivery, while the second reduces the chance of the ball seaming and swinging .
The former India batsman Sanjay Manjrekar suggested that the lack of movement in Sharma's bowling discouraged him from pitching the ball up so instead he tends to bowl short .
The slower pace of his bowling when he pitches the ball up may explain why the yorker is not an effective delivery for him.
Ishant Sharma plays for Sunrisers Hyderabad in Indian Premier League.
Lee was known for his pace and regularly clocked 90 mph and above.
This innings nearly won the match for Australia but the other batsman Michael Kasprowicz was caught behind by Geraint Jones and England won by just two runs.
After the memorable match, England bowlers Steve Harmison and Andrew Flintoff went over to console Lee.
His previous highest score in Tests was 62 not out which he made against the West Indies in 2000 at the Gabba .
Lee had also once again nearly surpassed his highest test score when he had made 63 not out, but unfortunately Ricky Ponting had declared the innings in the 2nd test against the West Indies.
Lee started playing in the junior teams of his local side, Oak Flats Rats, and gradually worked his way up the ranks.
In March 1994, he was forced out of the Australian under-19 team to tour India due to stress fractures in his lower back and it forced him to remodel his bowling action to minimise the impact on his back.
Prior to making his first-class debut, Lee played for Mosman in the final of the 1996–97 Sydney Grade Cricket competition.
Lee was first named in the New South Wales Blues squad as the twelfth man for the 14–16 November match against Queensland in the 1997–98 Sheffield Shield .
During the final he played an important part with both bat and ball and was named Man of the Match.
Following his retirement from Test cricket, Lee stopped playing first-class cricket to concentrate on the limited-overs formats.
He was the Blues' highest wicket-taker in the 2010–11 Ryobi One-Day Cup with 15 wickets and had the second best economy rate of the top five wicket-takers despite missing the latter stages of the campaign due to international duty.
In June 2012 he declined to renew his contract with the Blues, ending his 15-year association with his domestic team.
He retired from Big Bash League after playing the final match for the Sydney Sixers on 28 January 2015.
By the late 1990s there were calls for Lee to be included in the national squad.
He was eventually chosen in the final 14 for the Test series against Pakistan in 1999 but failed to make the starting 11.
By the time the Test series against India came around, he was twelfth man .
Lee took thirteen wickets in his opening two Tests at the low average of 14.15.
Lee won the inaugural Donald Bradman Young Player of the Year Award at the Allan Border Medal award ceremony in 2000 soon after his debut.
Lee took 42 wickets in his opening three series, the most by any Australian bowler in the seven matches he played.
Lee returned to the international team for the 2001 Ashes series after recovering from an elbow injury.
His comeback saw less success than his debut, managing only nine wickets in five Tests at 55.11.
He finished the series with 14 wickets at 25.14.
The two home and away series against South Africa were not as productive, yielding 19 wickets in six Tests at 38.42.
Lee came under pressure for his position after taking only five wickets at 46.50 in the three-Test series against Pakistan in 2002.
It was the first series in two years where he averaged under 30, and only the second in that period where had averaged under 40.
He took six wickets at 31.66, and was Australia's most expensive bowler, with the other specialist bowlers averaging 15.55 against the lowest ranked team in Test cricket.
Loss of Test position Lee took eight wickets in 100 overs in the final two Tests against India, at an average of 59.50.
He ended the series with the worst average and economy rate of Australia's front line bowlers.
He was subsequently replaced by fellow fast bowler Michael Kasprowicz in 2004 during the tour of Sri Lanka when Lee's ankle injury worsened, forcing him to return home to have surgery.
This injury would force Lee out of the game for 4½ months to ensure his full recovery.
This included 17 wickets at 26.82 on the spin friendly pitches of the Indian subcontinent, helping Australia to its first whitewash in Sri Lanka, and its first series win in India for 35 years.
With Kasprowicz and Jason Gillespie both struggling for form, Lee returned to take the new ball with Glenn McGrath .
He averaged 40 with the ball for the series, which some commentators have put down to having to bowl longer spells than he was accustomed to at the time which yielded runs at an average of 26.33.
Part of Lee's difficulty at Test level is that the benefits of his high speed, which give the batsmen less reaction time, also results in more erratic bowling.
In recent times he has tried to concentrate solely on accuracy by reducing speed.
He finished the three Test series with 13 wickets and of the Australian bowlers, was second only to Shane Warne 's 14 wickets in the series.
Three Australian players including Lee, who was reprimanded in the Third Test in Sydney for showing dissent towards umpire Aleem Dar .
With the unavailability of Glenn McGrath for the tour of South Africa in March–April 2006, Lee became the spearhead of the Australian bowling line-up.
In his first series as bowling spearhead reaped 16 wickets at an average of 17.5.
This was achieved by bowling 5 km/h slower to improve accuracy.
In the following series Lee took 24 wickets at 22.58 in four Tests against India.
In this series he overtook Jason Gillespie to become Australia's 5th highest wicket taker.
The fracture broke completely during the second innings of the Boxing Day Test-match and he was forced to return home for surgery.
By the time he returned to the Australian team for the Ashes in 2009, his position as spearhead had been usurped by the left armer Mitchell Johnson .
Lee was the only bowler to get reverse swing in this match and appeared to be in line for selection for the First Test at Cardiff.
Lee had been considering retiring from Test cricket for some time since 2008 due to the physical strain.
His bowling strike rate of around 30 puts him amongst the most incisive in this form of the game.
Lee was the first Australian and fourth bowler to ever achieve this feat in World Cup history.
Lee finished the series with 15 wickets, the third highest tally behind Nathan Bracken and Muttiah Muralitharan .
He was left out of the test side during the Ashes but was in the one-day side for the NatWest Series in September.
Despite competition from younger bowlers and another injury setback, Lee managed to make the squad for the 2011 Cricket World Cup .
He finished the tournament with 13 wickets, the highest of all the bowlers in the team.
During the match against Ireland he opened the bowling and bowled William Porterfield and Ed Joyce in only his first three deliveries.
In July 2014, he played for the  the next match of the tri-series against Sri Lanka on 30 May 2010 by scoring 101 not out.
He was dropped from the Indian squad for 2011 World Cup .
He was part of the squad selected to play in the Australian series .
In 2013, he was experimented as new opening batsman for India along with the Shikhar Dhawan for the Champions Trophy .
The successful starts achieved by this opening pair helped India win the Champions Trophy and Tri-nation series in the West Indies .
In November 2013, during Sachin Tendulkar's farewell Test series, Sharma made his Test debut at Eden Gardens in Kolkata against the West Indies.
In 2014, he became the first person to score more than 250 runs in One-Day international cricket.
With this feat, he became the second Indian cricketer to have scored centuries in all formats of the game.
He was later promoted as the permanent captain of the Mumbai Indians in the 2013 season as Ricky Ponting was benched due to poor form.
You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
Attribute this work:What does "Attribute this work" mean?The page you came from contained embedded licensing metadata, including how the creator wishes to be attributed for re-use.
Doing so will also include metadata on your page so that others can find the original work as well.
No warranties are given.
For example, other rights such as publicity, privacy, or moral rights may limit how you use the material.
The applicable mediation rules will be designated in the copyright notice published with the work, or if none then in the request for mediation.
In 4.0, you must indicate if you modified the material and retain an indication of previous modifications.
After his impressive domestic season with Punjab and Kings XI Punjab Sharma was picked in the 15-man squad for the limited overs tour of Zimbabwe in July 2015.
He made his Twenty20 International debut against Zimbabwe on 17 July 2015.
India recorded their first Test victory, in their 24th match, against England at Madras  in 1952.
However, they did not win again in the remainder of the decade and lost badly to strong Australian and English sides.
They managed to draw home series against Pakistan and Australia, and another series against England.
In this same period, India also won its first series outside the subcontinent, against New Zealand in 1967–68.
This period also saw the emergence of two of India's best ever batsmen, Sunil Gavaskar and Gundappa Viswanath .
Indian pitches have had tendency to support spin and the spin quartet exploited this to create collapses in opposing batting line-ups.
These players were responsible for the back-to-back series wins in 1971 in the West Indies and in England, under the captaincy of Ajit Wadekar .
There were six fifties, the highest being 70 by Mohinder Amarnath .
The innings was the eighth instance in Test cricket where all eleven batsmen reached double figures.
In 1984, India won the Asia Cup and in 1985, won the World Championship of Cricket in Australia.
India's Test series victory in 1986 against England remained the last Test series win by India outside the subcontinent for the next 19 years.
The 1980s saw Gavaskar and Kapil Dev  at the pinnacle of their careers.
Kapil Dev later became the highest wicket-taker in Test cricket with 434 wickets.
The period was also marked by an unstable leadership, with Gavaskar and Kapil exchanging the captaincy several times.
The addition of Sachin Tendulkar and Anil Kumble to the national side in 1989 and 1990 further improved the team.
Despite this, during the 1990s, India did not win any of its 33 Tests outside the subcontinent while it won 17 out of its 30 Tests at home.
Tendulkar resigned, vowing never to captain the team again.
a lovely person
He also won the award for Outstanding Contribution to Sport at the 5th Asian Awards, which were held in London on 17 April 2015.
Sangakkara currently plays domestic cricket for Nondescripts in Sri Lanka, as well as Surrey in England and also various T20 tournaments around the world.
Sangakkara has played English county cricket with Warwickshire in the 2007 County Championship .
Winning bids for him in 2008 and 2011 were US$700,000 by Kings XI Punjab and US$300,000 by Deccan Chargers respectively.
He was the captain of the Sunrisers Hyderabad team.
In the Sri Lanka Premier League which officially started in 2012, Sangakkara was named the captain and icon player of the Kandurata Warriors franchise.
On 18 August 2013, Sangakkarra joined the Jamaica Tallawahs of the Caribbean Premier League .
While the cut and the pull are natural strokes to him, he tends to play off the front foot.
The cover drive is one of his regular scoring shots.
In an interview in 2004 he explained his approach to sledging:The public perception of sledging is to go out there and abuse someone in obscene language, questioning their parentage or sexual preferences.
That kind of abuse does not belong on the field of play.
Laxman is related to India's second President Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan .
Laxman is known for his "wristy, willowy and sinuous" style, one which is technically fluid at its best.
Laxman's on-side playing capability is comparable with his fellow Hyderabadi Mohammed Azharuddin 's.
The Australians once admitted that they did not know where to bowl to him.
At the start of his career, Laxman was rated by Geoffrey Boycott as one of India's best current players of the hard  ball.
But Laxman came into his own only when he was asked to bat in the middle order.
His 281 is rated by many as the best ever innings played by an Indian batsman.
Laxman made his Under-19 debut for India against Australia in February 1994.
Laxman made his first-class debut for Hyderabad against Punjab in the quarter-final match of 1992–93 Ranji Trophy season.
Laxman returned to playing first-class cricket in 1999 to regain his place in the national team.
His performance was rewarded when, in January 2000, he was recalled in the Indian squad for the Australian tour.
Australia's tour of India Laxman's career changed dramatically in the home series against Australia .
He had scores of 69, 69*, 74, 1, 43, 130, 65* and 23 in that series.
But his form dropped during India's tour of New Zealand in 2002/03.
He won the Man of the Series award for his impressive batting performances in the two Test match series.
This was their first Test victory in Australia in two decades.
India went on to post 705/7 in their first innings which is their highest total in Test cricket.
During this series, Ian Chappell described Laxman as Very Very Special Laxman.
Decline of form However, Laxman's form was on the decline since the series against Australia.
In November 2006, he was selected in the test squad for India's tour of South Africa.
He passed the 5000 run landmark in the first day of the final test.
After the tests he joined Lancashire as their overseas player in place of Brad Hodge .
He played in five games of the county championship and showed glimpses of his sublime batting.
They just missed out by 25 runs and subsequently lost the Championship to Sussex.
This ensured his place on the tour of Australia which would be his third to that country.
Sublime form from end of 2007 till May 2011Laxman's good form continued in the 2007/08 Test series against Australia with him scoring 109 against Australia on the second day of the controversial Sydney Test to put India back into the contest.
It was his 12th hundred in Test matches, and his 5th against Australia.
He hit 51 in the first innings of the final Test at Adelaide.
He finished as the second highest run-getter for India in that series, only behind Sachin Tendulkar .
Cook captained England in the 2015 Ashes series, and although England won the first game, Cook could only manage scores of 20 in the first innings and 12 in the second.
England lost the second Test by 405 runs, but Cook was one of the few England batsman to show any resistance, scoring 96 in England's first innings.
With the series level Cook made 34 in England's first innings of the third Test and England went on to win the game by eight wickets.
England won the fourth Test by an innings and 78 runs, meaning Cook only needed to bat once, scoring 43 in England's first innings.
With the Ashes won, Cook was praised for his captaincy and he gave an emotional interview following the victory.
England lost the final match of the series, but Cook was again one of few England batsmen to show any resistance with the bat as he scored 85 in their second innings.
Despite the loss, England won the series 3–2 and Cook celebrated his second Ashes win as captain.
In doing so he also became the all time highest non-Asian run scorer in Asia overtaking Jacques Kallis' 2,039 runs.
A decision was made to form an all-Sinhalese club, and thus Sinhalese Sports Club was founded.
In 1952 the club leased another 20 acres  and moved to its present location in Maitland Place, which was used as an aerodrome by the allied forces in World War II .
A giant scoreboard and sightscreens were built in the mid-70s.
Later the current scoreboard was built.
There are two grass embankments for the spectators.
However Bangladesh went on to lose the match by an innings and 137 runs.
In 2015, he has switched from UP to Gujarat in domestic circuit and currently representing Gujarat in Ranji Trophy.
India went on to win the series 4–1.
However, he was unable to maintain his level of performance, and was dropped from the side.
In 2006 it was announced that Singh would be signing for English side Leicestershire as their second overseas signing.
Singh was included in the Test squad for the tour to England and performed well, taking 5/59 at Lord's his first five-wicket-haul in Tests.
In the one-day series he took seven wickets at 31.71 from five matches.
India won the 12-nation tournament after beating Pakistan in the final.
In his second season of the tournament, Singh was highly successful and he emerged as the highest wicket taker of the tournament, with 23 from 16 matches thereby winning the Purple Cap.
Deccan Chargers emerged as winners of the tournament.
He is also the leading all time wicket taker in Indian Premier League with 52 wickets.
He was bought for $600,000 by the Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League Players Auction, 2012.
After the England Series in 2011, he has never come back to international cricket.
India's Zaheer Khan ruled out of England series with ankle injury
India maintained their unbeaten home record against Australia in Test series after defeating them in 2001.
The Indian cricket team in action in the Wankhede Stadium At the end of the 2004 season, India suffered from lack of form and fitness from its older players.
Greg Chappell took over from John Wright as the coach of the Indian cricket team following the series, and his methods proved to be controversial during the beginning of his tenure.
In December 2006, India played and won its first ever Twenty20 international in South Africa, becoming the most recent Test team to play Twenty20 cricket.
However, defeats to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka saw India fail to reach the second round.
In April 2009, India secured their first Test series win in New Zealand in 41 years.
They retained the ranking by drawing series against South Africa and Sri Lanka.
In October 2010, India whitewashed Australia 2–0 in the home Test series, giving them back-to-back series wins against them.
Later that year, India managed to draw the Test series in South Africa at 1–1.
India's results in international matches Youth and early career Morgan was born in Dublin and educated at the Catholic University School on Leeson Street, where he won three senior cup titles for the school.
This was compiled from 250 balls.
He achieved this against the touring South Africans before their Test series against England; the innings included three sixes off spinner Paul Harris .
Morgan was part of Middlesex's victorious Twenty20 Cup winning side in 2008.
He underlined his growing maturity after leading Middlesex to victory in the County Championship against Kent.
It was Middlesex's first four-day victory of the season.
Udal returned to captain the side for the next match against Essex.
Morgan took part in the 2010 Indian Premier League .
Only two other batsmen passed 20 as Ireland beat Scotland by 85 runs.
And the people at home involved in cricket, they were like, “Fair play, it’s going to be unbelievable if you make it”.
So I’ve never had any shame about this and my father’s never had any shame about it.’
Morgan played in the opening match of the World Twenty20 against the Netherlands, but after England's defeat played no further part in the tournament.
He hit an unbeaten 62, and was well supported by Middlesex colleague Owais Shah .
Morgan kept wicket for the first time in his professional career in the next match against South Africa, after regular wicket-keeper Matt Prior was struck down by illness.
Morgan batting against Bangladesh in 2010.
He kept his place for the next match, where he scored 28 to help England win the match by seven wickets.
His innings earns him the man of the match award.
He made 36 in the final match of the series, meaning he had scored 169 runs in the three matches he had played.
Morgan was one of England's stand out batsmen in the series and his performances earns him praise from the media.
England won the series with two games to spare, although they lost both dead rubbers, and Morgan was named Player of the Series.
Bangladesh and Pakistan On the back of his one-day success, he was then included in England's Test squad for the home series against Bangladesh .
With Paul Collingwood rested, he made his début in the first Test at Lord's on 27 May 2010.
An injury to Ian Bell saw Morgan retained for the Test series against Pakistan .
In the third match he made scores of 17 and 5, as England won to go 3–0 up in the series.
In the final match of the series he scored 107 not out to help England win by 121 runs.
His top score of the series came in the third match between the two sides, where he made 30.
He made 24 in the next match to help England win by 21 runs.
The sixth match of the series saw Morgan make 21 from just 13 balls, but it was not enough to prevent another an England defeat, this time by two wickets.
However, they lost to Sri Lanka by ten wickets, although Morgan made 50 off 66 balls.
He scored 57 runs from 60 balls.
England won the three-match series 1–0, with Morgan scoring 168 runs from four innings including two half-centuries.
Morgan retained his place when India toured England later that summer for four Tests.
England lost the Test series 3–0, and their batsmen struggled to cope against Pakistan's spin bowlers.
Morgan made scores of 24 and 14 in the first Test.
His top score of the series came in his final innings of the tour, where he made 31.
He was seen as one of contender to replace Kevin Pietersen after he was not selected for the Test team following reports of him texting South Africans players, but selectors chose young James Taylor .
In the second match he made an impressive 73 as England levelled the series.
He was not effective with the bat in the T20 series, scoring just 15 runs in the series, although this was partly due to him having limited time at the crease.
He hit 71 runs of just 36 against the West Indies in the first match of the Super Eight stage.
However, despite his efforts,a England still lost by 15 runs.
He hit 30 against New Zealand as England won to keep their hopes of qualification alive.
However, England lost to Sri Lanka by seven wickets meaning that their hopes of progressing were over as they were knocked out of the competition.
India and New Zealand He captained the T20 team against India in the absences of Stuart Broad,  who was out injured.
Morgan was selected for the One Day series against India at the beginning of 2013.
In the first match against New Zealand, he helped England set 214 after he smashed 46 of just 26 balls as England won the match by 40 runs.
In contrast, he only made 13 from 22 deliveries in the next match as England lost by 55 runs.
The series decider was rained off.
He did not bat in the next game as England levelled the series at 1–1.
England lost this game by 86 runs after New Zealand scored 359.
He made 28 in the final game as England won by 34 runs.
In the semi final against South Africa, he made an unbeaten 15 to help guide England to victory and reach the final against India.
He was consistent against the series against Australia where he led with example as captain even though his team lost 2–1 in series.
He joined up with the England squad in Australia after they had lost the Ashes 5–0, meaning morale was low.
Morgan made yet another 50 in the third match, but they lost the game to go 3–0 down in the series.
He hit 33 in the next match as England won their first game of the tour, but lost again in the final game where Morgan made 39.
He made just three as England lost the next match by five wickets.
In the final match of the series he made 18 to help England win the match, although they lost the series 2–1.
In the T20 World Cup, England lost their first game to New Zealand, with Morgan making just 12.
However, they lost their next game to South Africa, with Morgan scoring just six to end their hopes of qualifying.
He top scored with 40 in the next game as England were bowled out for 99 to allow Sri Lanka to level the series.
Morgan only made 12 in the next match as Sri Lanka won by seven runs to level the series once more.
In the final match of the series he made 17 as England lost the game and the series 3–2.
After the first game against India was rained off, Morgan made 28 in the second match as England lost to go 1–0 down in the series.
He made 10 in the next match as India secured another win, this time by six wickets.
The manner of the lead to questions over the personnel in the team, and the pressure increased on captain Alistair Cook.
In the only T20 match between the two sides, Morgan hit 71 from just 31 balls in an innings that included seven sixes.
England won the match by three runs and Morgan was named man of the match.
He scored just 19 runs in the first three games as England went 2-1 down in the series.
He made 62, his only fifty of he tour, although England still went on to lose the game.
In the final match Morgan again failed to make an impression, this time making just four runs as England suffered another defeat.
England beat India again in the next game to qualify for the final, but Morgan was again unimpressive, making just two.
Morgan's poor form continued into the World Cup, where he only scored 90 runs in five innings.
Morgan performed strongly with the bat, scoring 88 off only 47 balls.
Morgan scored 71 in England's innings.
Laxman was dismissed by Mendis on all five occasions in that series.
He also crossed the 6000-run milestone during the series.
During the third Test at the Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi, Laxman scored an unbeaten 200 in the first innings with characteristic use of his wrists and flicks through the leg side.
In the same innings, Gautam Gambhir scored 206, Laxman and Gambhir becoming the first pair of batsmen to score double-centuries in the same innings for India, and the first to do so against Australia.
This was his second double-century in Test cricket with the previous one coming against the same opponents.
He made an unbeaten 59 in the second innings and was named Man of the Match.
The match was also the last game of India's spin wizard Anil Kumble who was also the captain of the team.
Though he had not played cricket, Dhoni impressed with his wicket-keeping skills and became the regular wicketkeeper at the Commando cricket club .
Based on his performance at club cricket, he was picked for the 1997/98 season Vinoo Mankad Trophy Under-16 Championship and he performed well.
Junior cricket in Bihar In 1998 Dhoni was selected by Deval Sahay to play for the Central Coal Fields Limited  team.
Dhoni made his Ranji Trophy debut for Bihar in the 1999–2000 season as an eighteen-year-old.
In the Duleep Trophy finals, Dhoni was picked over international cricketer Deep Dasgupta to represent East Zone.
Brown line indicates 10 match average while the orange line indicates career average progression.

Dhoni was promoted to accelerate the scoring and ended the game with an unbeaten 183 off 145 balls, winning the game for India.
He rarely bowls at international level.
India scored 328 in 50 overs with Dhoni contributing 68 in their first match of 2006 against Pakistan .
However, the team finished poorly scoring just 43 runs in the last eight overs and lost the match due to Duckworth-Lewis method .
Two cancelled series in Sri Lanka, one due to the withdrawal of South Africa from the Unitech Cup due to security concerns Preparations for the 2007 Cricket World Cup improved as India recorded identical 3–1 victories over West Indies and Sri Lanka and Dhoni had averages in excess of 100 in both these series.
However, India unexpectedly crashed out the World Cup after losses to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka in the group stage.
He was also later adjudged the Man of the Series after the third game of the series was washed away.
Dhoni took his first wicket in international cricket on 30 September 2009.
Michael Hussey from Australia replaced him at the top spot at the beginning of 2010.
On 12 February 2012, Dhoni made an unbeaten 44 to guide India to their first win over Australia at Adelaide.
This gave Indians, their first series lost against Bangladesh.
Following his good one-day performance against Sri Lanka, Dhoni replaced Dinesh Karthik in December 2005 as the Indian Test wicket-keeper.
India toured Pakistan in January–February 2006 and Dhoni scored his maiden century in the second Test at Faisalabad .
Dhoni played his typical aggressive innings as he brought up his maiden Test hundred in just 93 balls after scoring the first fifty in just 34 deliveries.
In the Test series in South Africa later that year, Dhoni's scores of 34 and 47 were not sufficient to save the second Test against the Proteas as India lost the series 2–1, squandering the chance to build on their first ever Test victory in South Africa .
Dhoni's bruised hands ruled him out of the third Test match.
As the batsman started to walk back, captain Dravid declared the innings when confusion started as the umpires were not certain if the fielder stepped on the ropes and Dhoni stayed for the umpire's verdict.
The impasse continued for more than 15 minutes and Lara's temper was on display with finger wagging against the umpires and snatching the ball from umpire Asad Rauf .
Ultimately, Dhoni walked off and Dravid's declaration was effected but the game was delayed, and Lara's action was criticised by the commentators and former players.
 Lara was summoned by the match referee to give an explanation of his actions but he was not fined.
With this feat, India soared up to the number one position in Test cricket for the first time in history.
 India scored 726–9  in the third match of this series, which is their highest Test total ever. 
He played his last series in the 2014–15 season in India's tour of Australia captaining India in the second and third tests; losing the second and drawing the third, trailing the series 2–0 before the Sydney Test.
He finished his last innings unbeaten making 24 runs.
Tendulkar resigned, vowing never to captain the team again.
India maintained their unbeaten home record against Australia in Test series after defeating them in 2001.
The Indian cricket team in action in the Wankhede Stadium At the end of the 2004 season, India suffered from lack of form and fitness from its older players.
Greg Chappell took over from John Wright as the coach of the Indian cricket team following the series, and his methods proved to be controversial during the beginning of his tenure.
In December 2006, India played and won its first ever Twenty20 international in South Africa, becoming the most recent Test team to play Twenty20 cricket.
However, defeats to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka saw India fail to reach the second round.
In April 2009, India secured their first Test series win in New Zealand in 41 years.
They retained the ranking by drawing series against South Africa and Sri Lanka.
In October 2010, India whitewashed Australia 2–0 in the home Test series, giving them back-to-back series wins against them.
Later that year, India managed to draw the Test series in South Africa at 1–1.
India's results in international matches Bhatia has played four Under-19 Limited Overs Matches.
Despite that, he was hardly known out of the Indian domestic circuit.
He first played for Tamil Nadu, but later returned to his original state, the Delhi cricket team .
Though he had not played cricket, Dhoni impressed with his wicket-keeping skills and became the regular wicketkeeper at the Commando cricket club .
Based on his performance at club cricket, he was picked for the 1997/98 season Vinoo Mankad Trophy Under-16 Championship and he performed well.
Junior cricket in Bihar In 1998 Dhoni was selected by Deval Sahay to play for the Central Coal Fields Limited  team.
Dhoni made his Ranji Trophy debut for Bihar in the 1999–2000 season as an eighteen-year-old.
In the Duleep Trophy finals, Dhoni was picked over international cricketer Deep Dasgupta to represent East Zone.
Brown line indicates 10 match average while the orange line indicates career average progression.

Dhoni was promoted to accelerate the scoring and ended the game with an unbeaten 183 off 145 balls, winning the game for India.
He rarely bowls at international level.
India scored 328 in 50 overs with Dhoni contributing 68 in their first match of 2006 against Pakistan .
However, the team finished poorly scoring just 43 runs in the last eight overs and lost the match due to Duckworth-Lewis method .
Two cancelled series in Sri Lanka, one due to the withdrawal of South Africa from the Unitech Cup due to security concerns Preparations for the 2007 Cricket World Cup improved as India recorded identical 3–1 victories over West Indies and Sri Lanka and Dhoni had averages in excess of 100 in both these series.
However, India unexpectedly crashed out the World Cup after losses to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka in the group stage.
He was also later adjudged the Man of the Series after the third game of the series was washed away.
Dhoni took his first wicket in international cricket on 30 September 2009.
Michael Hussey from Australia replaced him at the top spot at the beginning of 2010.
On 12 February 2012, Dhoni made an unbeaten 44 to guide India to their first win over Australia at Adelaide.
This gave Indians, their first series lost against Bangladesh.
Following his good one-day performance against Sri Lanka, Dhoni replaced Dinesh Karthik in December 2005 as the Indian Test wicket-keeper.
India toured Pakistan in January–February 2006 and Dhoni scored his maiden century in the second Test at Faisalabad .
Dhoni played his typical aggressive innings as he brought up his maiden Test hundred in just 93 balls after scoring the first fifty in just 34 deliveries.
In the Test series in South Africa later that year, Dhoni's scores of 34 and 47 were not sufficient to save the second Test against the Proteas as India lost the series 2–1, squandering the chance to build on their first ever Test victory in South Africa .
Dhoni's bruised hands ruled him out of the third Test match.
As the batsman started to walk back, captain Dravid declared the innings when confusion started as the umpires were not certain if the fielder stepped on the ropes and Dhoni stayed for the umpire's verdict.
The impasse continued for more than 15 minutes and Lara's temper was on display with finger wagging against the umpires and snatching the ball from umpire Asad Rauf .
Ultimately, Dhoni walked off and Dravid's declaration was effected but the game was delayed, and Lara's action was criticised by the commentators and former players.
Lara was summoned by the match referee to give an explanation of his actions but he was not fined.
With this feat, India soared up to the number one position in Test cricket for the first time in history.
India scored 726–9  in the third match of this seriof Praveen Kumar, Sreesanth and Munaf Patel.
But Ishant has taken the setbacks in his stride.
"I am just trying to forget the past and start afresh.
I will do my best for Hyderabad."Despite
"You've got to go with your instincts, believe in your strong points and bowl to your strength rather than think about the batsmen's plus points.
The slower ones, the yorkers are all key deliveries in this format and you have to use them judiciously.
You've got to change your line and length constantly and plan every ball.
One has to be on top of the game and not complicate things.
Ishant, who returned to some form with figures of 4/40 in the abandoned game, said things are not as bad as they seem.
Ishant, who returned to some form with figures of 4/40 in the abandoned game, said things are not as bad as they seem.
"Everyone is an international player in both the teams and it's all in the mind.

And we will be utilising them in the Test series," he added.
In the course of his 4/40 yesterday, Ishant collected his 100th wicket in 70 matches when he dismissed Ryan McLaren.
The wind blows from different directions and the captain tends to rotate his bowlers.
In three matches, Quinton de Kock was the biggest thorn in the Men in Blue's flesh.
He struck three successive centuries to leave the bowling attack gasping for breath.


Everyone is learning.
We make mistakes, and we learn, trying to keep things simple.
It becomes easier then," he added, talking about the improvement in the team's bowling performance as the series progressed.
We may share your information when you give us specific permission to do so.
Back to top We will disclose your information in response to an official legal process only if we believe it to be legally valid.
We will notify you of such requests when possible.
However, we may only provide notice if we are not legally restrained from contacting you, there is no credible threat to life or limb that is created or increased by disclosing the request, and you have provided us with an email address.
We may also need to access and share information to investigate and defend ourselves against legal threats or actions.
Wikimedia Sites are collaborative, with users writing most of the policies and selecting from amongst themselves people to hold certain administrative rights.
These rights may include access to limited amounts of otherwise nonpublic information about recent contributions and activity by other users.
They use this access to help protect against vandalism and abuse, fight harassment of other users, and generally try to minimize disruptive behavior on the Wikimedia Sites.
We may also disclose your personal information if we reasonably believe it necessary to detect, prevent, or otherwise assess and address potential spam, malware, fraud, abuse, unlawful activity, and security or technical concerns.
Back to top We may disclose personal information to our third-party service providers or contractors to help run or improve the Wikimedia Sites and provide services in support of our mission .
As hard as we may try, we can't do it all.
So sometimes we use third-party service providers or contractors who help run or improve the Wikimedia Sites for you and other users.
We may give access to your personal information to these providers or contractors as needed to perform their services for us or to use their tools and services.
Back to top We may give volunteer developers and researchers access to systems that contain your information to allow them to protect, develop, and contribute to the Wikimedia Sites.
We may also share non-personal or aggregated information with third parties interested in studying the Wikimedia Sites.
The open-source software that powers the Wikimedia Sites depends on the contributions of volunteer software developers, who spend time writing and testing code to help it improve and evolve with our users' needs.
To facilitate their work, we may give some developers limited access to systems that contain your personal information, but only as reasonably necessary for them to develop and contribute to the Wikimedia Sites.
Similarly, we may share non-personal or aggregated information with researchers, scholars, academics, and other interested third parties who wish to study the Wikimedia Sites.
Sharing this information helps them understand usage, viewing, and demographics statistics and patterns.
They then can share their findings with us and our users so that we can all better understand and improve the Wikimedia Sites.
If these developers or researchers later publish their work or findings, we ask that they not disclose your personal information.
Please note that, despite the obligations we impose on developers and researchers, we cannot guarantee that they will abide by our agreement, nor do we guarantee that we will regularly screen or audit their projects.
Information that you post is public and can been seen and used by everyone.
And if you edit without registering or logging into your account, your IP address will be seen publicly.
Please think carefully about your desired level of anonymity before you disclose personal information on your user page or elsewhere.
We strive to protect your information from unauthorized access, use, or disclosure.
Back to top We only keep your personal information as long as necessary to maintain, understand, and improve the Wikimedia Sites or to comply with U.S. law.
Once we receive personal information from you, we keep it for the shortest possible time that is consistent with the maintenance, understanding, and improvement of the Wikimedia Sites, and our obligations under applicable U.S. law.
Non-personal information may be retained indefinitely.
Please remember that certain information is retained and displayed indefinitely, such as your IP address  and any public contributions to the Wikimedia Sites.
You also consent to the transfer of your information by us from the U.S. to other countries, which may have different or less stringent data protection laws than your country, in connection with providing services to you.
Our Response to Do Not Track  signals We do not allow tracking by third-party websites you have not visited.
We do not share your data with third parties for marketing purposes.
We are strongly committed to not sharing nonpublic information with third parties.
We reserve the right to do so in the following manner:In the event of substantial changes, we will provide the proposed changes to our users in at least three .
I don't know why they decided to give up on their pace.
I love bowling fast, and it is my strength.
I will never compromise on my pace," he told the Indian Express.
"Speed is okay; you have to bowl quick.
After that, they adjust pretty easily," he told Reuters.
Even genuine fast bowlers have to have the right line and length."With
India struggling in the pace department in England, there were calls for Aaron, who is just 21, to be drafted into the national team, and when Ishant sustained an ankle injury, Aaron was called up to the one-day squad.
He, however, said he would not be bogged down by the pressure of expectation.
"It's tough to ignore the expectations that people have.
Working with Eric was great,
He made his First-class debut against Punjab at Ludhiana in the 1993/94 season.
He was an integral part of the North Zone team which lifted the Duleep and Deodhar Trophies in 1999-2000, and also captained Delhi for some time.
He retired from all forms of cricket after playing his last match against Uttar Pradesh in December 2006.
The last of which was against Australia at Fatorda Stadium in the 2001 series.
He made his Test debut against Zimbabwe at his home ground Feroz Shah Kotla in November 2000 as the match ended in drawn.
He played only one more Test match against same opponent at Vidarbha Cricket Association Stadium .
He was named Delhi coach in 2007/08 season and was sacked 2013/14 season due his Kolkata Knight Riders commitments.
In September 2014, he was re-appointed as the head coach of the Delhi 's Ranji Trophy side for 2014/15 season.
Early and personal life Pietersen was born to an English mother, Penny, and an Afrikaner father, Jannie.
He did not at this stage contemplate forsaking his nation; nor had it yet occurred to him that the decision would eventually have to be taken.
Kevin Pietersen published his autobiography: Kevin Pietersen: Crossing the Boundary in early 2007.
KP: The Autobiography was published in October 2014, ghost written by Irish sports journalist David Walsh .
He arrived at the hospital just in time for the birth.
This really is the most amazing experience of my life.
In November 2015 he announced that him and his wife are expecting their second child.
Despite the praise from the England side, Pietersen claimed he was dropped from the Natal first team.
Pietersen felt that this was due to the country's racial quota system, in which provincial sides were required to have at least four black players.
In 2003, Pietersen scored 1,546 first-class runs, and 764 runs in limited overs cricket .
I could have done so much better if the wicket had been good."
I was told the captain had said, 'if he does not want to play for Notts he can f*** off.'
Pietersen was made to honour the last year of his contract at Nottinghamshire, but "didn't enjoy it at all".
Having an England "central contract" meant that Pietersen was only released to play for Hampshire at the discretion of the national coach.
Pietersen then joined Surrey on loan from Hampshire for the remainder of the 2010 English county cricket season.
In July 2014, he played for the Rest of the World side in the Bicentenary Celebration match at Lord's .
Pietersen is eligible to play for England as he has an English mother.
The tour of Zimbabwe caused several players to voice their concerns about the Robert Mugabe regime, the security issues in the country and the standard of the Zimbabwean side.
Success in South Africa Pietersen was upset not to be initially in the squad to tour South Africa.
My affiliation is with England.
In the drawn third Test, Pietersen had his first quiet match when he scored 21 in the first innings, getting caught on the boundary.
However, England won and went 2–1 up.
He made little impact in the first and third test.
His first Test match innings since his match winning 158 against Australia was brief as he was caught at short leg for 5.
In the second innings, he was criticised for his dismissal.
In the third test, he made 34 before edging behind in the first innings.
With England in difficulty, Pietersen edged Danish Kaneria to short leg when only on one, as England were to be defeated by an innings.
In the first innings on 15, another rash shot brought his downfall.
His 87 in the second innings of the first match came during England's acceleration period, helping push the required target over 300.
In the one-day series, which England lost 5–1, he was top scorer for England in four out of the five matches he played, and had the highest average of any player with 58.20.
Sri Lanka and Pakistan in England, 2006See also: Sri Lankan cricket team in England in 2006 and Pakistani cricket team in England in 2006In May 2006, Pietersen matched his highest Test score of 158 in the first match against Sri Lanka .
His innings was ended when he was lbw to Chaminda Vaas .
In the second innings, he made 96 before edging behind again before the test came to an unexpected early end.
England in Australia, 2006–07See also: 2006-07 Ashes series and English cricket team in Australia in 2006–07In the much-anticipated Ashes series in Australia, Pietersen was hyped up as England's best player and this was justified as he scored 490 runs in five matches and averaged over fifty, despite Australia's obvious targeting of him.
"I was interested to see how he would get on in Australia in 2006–07 on pitches with more bounce", wrote Warne, "because bowlers had tried to test him with the short ball.
He was still England's best batsman."
He started well, in the First Test.
Pietersen bowls off-spin in the Adelaide Oval nets in November 2006.
In the tour's sole Twenty20 match, Pietersen was run out on eleven as England lost by 77 runs.
He made 48 in the unconvincing win against Ireland.
Pietersen made 58 against Sri Lanka before being caught and bowled by Murali .
Pietersen crafted 104 runs off 122 balls against Australia.
It was the first World Cup century by an Englishman since 1996, and the first ever against Australia.
India tour and Twenty20 Championship See also: Indian cricket team in England in 2007Pietersen batting during the second Test of India's tour of England in 2007Pietersen played in the first Test against India and in the first innings, he made 37 but not without controversy.
He edged the ball behind of Zaheer Khan to Dhoni.
He walked, but after seeing replays on the screen, he walked back to the middle and the decision was overturned.
Ironically, he was out shortly afterwards caught Dhoni, bowled Khan.
Pietersen described this as his best century, in very testing conditions.
He scored two half-centuries in the final matches including 71 not out in the final match at Lord's, hitting the winning runs to give England the series.
Pietersen was also picked for and played in the Twenty20 Championship in South Africa.
In England's first game against Zimbabwe on 13 September, Pietersen hit 79 runs off 37 balls, his highest Twenty20 score, including seven fours and four sixes  with Owais Shah .
He also held the highest strike rate of any England batsman.
He improved slightly in the second but only making 26 in the first innings and then running himself out on 42 having looked well set.
Ian Healy seconded this by saying "It just should be outlawed straightaway.
Otherwise you are going to start to allow the bowlers to go round the wicket, over the wicket, and keep swapping during their run-ups."
Pietersen countered these claims by saying:"That's ridiculous, absolutely stupid.
The reverse-sweep has been part of the game for however long.
Everybody wants brand new ideas, new inventions and new shots.
There are new things happening for cricket at the moment and people shouldn't be criticising it all the time."
He also calls for the wide law to be adjusted in one-day cricket, as bowlers are penalised for most deliveries that pass down the leg side.
New Zealand won to finish theetersen was named as the stand-in captain for three further matches in August.
With Michael Vaughan as captain for the first three tests, Pietersen seemed to thrive in his first Test series against his former countrymen scoring 152 in the opening match of the series.
Jonathan Agnew and Alec Stewart called the stroke "irresponsible" and Agnew continued, suggesting that Pietersen therefore ruled himself out of the potential reckoning for the England captaincy with Vaughan 's place in the starting line-up in doubt after failing to score runs.
In January 2009, following England's losses in India, the media reported that Pietersen had asked the England and Wales Cricket Board  to hold emergency meetings to discuss Moores' coaching role with the team.
Career in 2009England in West Indies Pietersen's first match after resigning from the captaincy garnered much media attention, played in the Caribbean during England's tour of the West Indies under the new captain, Strauss.
His good form carried on as he scored 72 not out to give England the draw at Barbados.
In the fifth and final Test, with England needing to win, Pietersen hit his quickest test century with 102 of 92 balls.
He struggled in the one-day series that followed with his top score being 48.
Pietersen's Achilles injury began flared up ahead of England's first Twenty20 match, against the Netherlands not long after.
Pietersen joined the England Ashes squad in June 2009 for the upcoming 2009 Ashes series.
His contributions, nevertheless, were significantly below his pre-injury range with an average of just 27.
He showed several lapses of concentration, leading some to suggest that off-field distractions and lingering issues with his removal from the captaincy were still affecting his form.
Pietersen went into the two-match tour of Bangladesh on the back of poor performances on his return from injury and led to speculation Pietersen's England place was under pressure.
Pietersen joined up with his Royal Challengers Bangalore team following the conclusion to England's tour of Bangladesh .
Following the conclusion of this match, Pietersen returned home to England to be present at the birth of his son.
He made 64 in the second Test, however.
Pietersen was omitted from both of England's limited-overs squads to face Pakistan.
England then proceeded to bowl Australia out in the final morning to win by an innings and 71 runs, and Pietersen was named man-of-the-match.
England were however defeated by the chasing Australians after Shane Watson 's monumental 161 not out.
In the three remaining matches  Pietersen scored 40, 29 and 26 respectively.
Career in 2011Pietersen batting during his innings of 72 against Sri Lanka at Lord's Pietersen was part of England's 15-man squad for the 2011 World Cup hosted by Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka between February and March.
In the warm-up matches he was asked to open the batting in anticipation that he would assume the position for the whole tournament.
He had opened the batting just six times in one-day games and never for England, although had done so for England A in 2004.
He returned from injury for the home series against Sri Lanka in May 2011.
On 10 April, Pietersen started his first match in the 2012 Indian Premier League for his new team, the Delhi Daredevils .
He scored his maiden century in that format during the tournament.
He commented "Can somebody please tell me how Knight has worked his way into the commentary box for Tests?
On 31 May 2012, Pietersen announced his retirement from one-day international cricket.
In the same press conference, he also mentioned issues within the dressing room that needed to be resolved.
In the following days, allegations were made that he sent defamatory text messages to members of the South African dressing room, with Strauss and Flower said to be referred to within the messages.
This led to Pietersen's selection as part of the Test squad later that month.
Most of the time, the wicket is one of the two sets of three stumps and two bails at either end of the pitch .
The third  stump was introduced in 1775.
The wicket consists of three wooden stumps that are 28 inches  above the stumps, and must, for men's cricket, be 4 5⁄inches .
The batsman is said to have lost his wicket.
What this means is defined by Law 28 of the Laws of cricket .
The wicket was not put down, and so the batsman  was not out .
If one bail is off, removing the remaining bail or striking or pulling any of the three stumps out of the ground is sufficient to put the wicket down.
If the umpires have agreed to dispense with bails, because, for example, it is too windy for the bails to remain on the stumps, the decision as to whether the wicket has been put down is one for the umpire concerned to decide.
The first wicket partnership is from the start of the innings until one of the first two batsmen gets out.
The tenth wicket or last wicket partnership is from when the eleventh  batsman gets out.
A team's innings ends when ten batsmen are dismissed, so, for example, if the side scored the required number of runs to win with only three batsmen dismissed, they are said to have won by seven wickets.
The word wicket is also sometimes used to refer to the cricket pitch itself.
Since many regular grounds had resident bat-makers it is quite possible that the branches cut off from the willow wood used for the bats formed all or part of this fence.
This makes the path of the ball more unpredictable thus making the job of defending the stumps that much more difficult.
Such pitches were commonplace at all levels of the game  until the late 1950s.
The arches used in croquet and roque are sometimes referred to as wickets, especially in American English .
Personal life and early career Rasool is from Ferozi Shah Mohalla Bijbehara in the Anantnag district of Kashmir.
Before playing junior cricket for Jammu and Kashmir, Rasool learnt the game from Qayoom and his own father, Ghulam Rasool, and brother, Asif Rasool, both have played competitive cricket.
He objected to the checking of his bag by sniffer dogs at his hotel.
India also managed to draw the Test series 1–1 in South Africa later that year.
Tendulkar mentioned that it was Dhoni's calm influence that was rubbing off on all his team-mates and described Dhoni's handling of pressure was incredible.
Dhoni leads the table with 33 Tests as captain, 15 ahead of Gerry Alexander in second place.
In March 2013, Dhoni became the most successful Indian Test captain when he eclipsed Sourav Ganguly ’s record of 21 victories from 49 Tests.
Dhoni, being captain of the Indian cricket team, has seldom faced any restrictions not to play in matches, due to slow-over rate.
Hence Virender Sehwag was named the skipper for the two matches in Cuttack and Kolkata.
Dhoni has captained India in two World Cups .
Under his captaincy, India won the World Cup in 2011, and reached the semifinals in 2015.
India made an early exit from the tournament in the Group Stage.
Rahul Dravid captained the team in this World Cup.
In three matches India played, they managed to win only one against Bermuda while losing the rest from Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.
In their first match against Bangladesh, India was all out in just 191 in 49.3 overs.
Dhoni scored 29 off 25 Balls which includes Two 4s and One 6. India won the match by 257 runs.
India was required to win their last group match against the Lankans but they lost by 69 runs.
Chasing the target of 255, India crumbled to 185 all out in 43.3 overs.
Thus, India was out of the world cup in very first round.
The Team was heavily criticized for their performance.
Dhoni's under construction house in Ranchi was attacked by some 200 fans after the Bangladesh loss.
Under Dhoni's captaincy, India won the 2011 World Cup .
In the final against Sri Lanka, chasing 275, Dhoni promoted himself up the batting order, coming before Yuvraj Singh .
When he came to bat India needed more than six runs per over with three top order batsmen already dismissed.
Due to good strokeplay and active running between wickets, they kept up with the required run rate.
Later in the post match presentation, he admitted that he came up the order so as to counter the Muralitharan spin threat as he was very familiar with Murali's bowling, who was his team-mate in the Indian Premier League  franchise Chennai Super Kings .
Dhoni is the present captain of the Chennai Super Kings Team .
Under his captaincy, Chennai Super Kings have won two Indian Premier League titles and the 2010 Champions League Twenty20 .
Following the death of his father in 2000, Harbhajan became the family head, and by 2001 had organised marriages for three of his sisters.
Harbhajan cut his bowling arm and injured his elbow when he was struck by the police.
Extensive negotiations from local officials and organisers were required to dissuade Harbhajan and captain Sourav Ganguly from leaving the area after Ganguly said that the Indian team would abandon the scheduled match against Zimbabwe .
In 2006 Harbhajan's endorsements generated controversy when he appeared without his turban in an advertisement for Royal Stag whisky .
He ended with 32 wickets at 15.15 and 96 runs at 48.00 in four matches.
In 1996–97, Harbhajan was promoted to the Punjab Under-19s and he took 15 wickets at 20.20 in three matches, although he managed only two runs with the bat.
This included match figures of 8/54 in an innings win over Jammu and Kashmir .
Harbhajan's season was interrupted when he represented India at the Under-19 World Cup in January 1998.
Despite the superior statistics of other bowlers in domestic cricket, Harbhajan was the selected for the Indian Board President's XI to play the touring Australian cricket team ahead of the Tests.
The incident in question was his altercation with Ricky Ponting after dismissing him.
Returning to India, Harbhajan started the 1998–99 domestic season well, taking 3/54 and 5/39 in an innings win over Services, before following up with 6/69 and 1/93 in the next match against Delhi, claiming his first five-wicket innings haul.
He only played in one Test during the tour, and went wicketless, conceding 72 runs.
He did not play in the Tests, with India opting to field only Anil Kumble in the team.
He went wicketless against Hyderabad, and was selected for the Board President's XI match against the touring South Africans.
He took 2/88 and 2/59 and scored 38 and 39 to prevent the hosts being bowled out and defeated, but was dropped as the second slow bowler, as Murali Kartik became Kumble's spinning partner.
However, his behaviour did not conform to requirements, and he was expelled on disciplinary grounds.
Following his run-ins with Indian cricket administrators, there was nothing to indicate that Harbhajan's chances of national selection had improved at the start of 2000–01.
During the first half of the season, still in international exile, Harbhajan continued to pick up wickets on the domestic circuit.
In five Ranji Trophy matches, he claimed 28 wickets at 13.96.
He claimed 3/29 and 3/39 against Himachal Pradesh, 2/53 and 5/88 against Jammu and Kashmir, 4/77 and 2/33 against Haryana and 5/40 against Services in the first four matches, all of which ended in innings wins for Punjab.
Harbhajan's batting, which had rarely been productive up to this point in his career, also improved.
He was unable to reproduce his Test form against Australia, managing only four wickets at an average of 59.25 and economy rate of 5.04.
Harbhajan is considered to be one of the legends in Indian cricket.
Harbhajan's Test fortunes improved immediately upon the start of the 2001–02 international season in India.
Harbhajan's overseas difficulties returned during the tour of the West Indies in mid-2002.
He was the first-choice spinner and played in all matches but one, being dropped for the victory against arch-rivals Pakistan in the group phase.
His counterpart, Kumble, played in only three matches.
Harbhajan made his Test return against Australia, who were again seeking their first series win on Indian soil since 1969 in the late 2004 home series .
After taking 2/54 in the first innings, he took 6/78 in the second, including South Africa's first five batsman to help dismiss the tourists for 222.
Harbhajan's first outings under newly appointed coach Greg Chappell came at the Indian Oil Cup in Sri Lanka in August 2005.
He took five wickets at 31.40, conceding 4.02 runs per over in four matches, but was wicketless in the final, which was won by the host nation.
Harbhajan's difficulties were compounded when he earned the ire of cricket authorities by publicly attacking Chappell and defending Ganguly after the team returned to India.
Harbhajan was under pressure to perform when Sri Lanka toured India in late 2005 following his attack on Chappell and the replacement of Ganguly, who had frequently supported him during previous career difficulties, with new captain Rahul Dravid .
After the first match in Chennai was washed out by monsoonal rains, Harbhajan Singh arrives at training.
Harbhajan's first tour to arch-rivals Pakistan.
A return to Indian soil for the Test series against England failed to ease Harbhajan's wicket-taking difficulties.
He took 0/30 from his ten overs, but India lost the match as their batsmen collapsed and Bangladesh had no need to take risks against the bowling.
Harbhajan and Tendulkar, his batting partner at the time of the incident, denied this.
The altercation with Symonds occurred during their partnership.
The result was that the racism charge was not proved, resulting in the revocation of the three-Test ban imposed by Procter.
However, Harbhajan was found guilty of using abusive language and fined 50% of his match fee.
Following the appeal, Harbhajan played in all eight of India's round-robin matches in the Commonwealth Bank series, which also involved Sri Lanka, taking five wickets at 39.00.
In the first final in Sydney, he removed both in the space of four overs, caught from his bowling.
Australia lost the momentum and their run-rate slowed, and India went on to win the series 2–0.
Harbhajan ended with 2/38 and 1/44 from his 10 overs in the respective matches.
Harbhajan was the top wicket-taker for the match, with figures of 5/161 and 3/101.
In the Second Test in Ahmedabad, he was India's leading wicket-taker for the third consecutive innings, taking 4/135 as the home team lost by an innings.
His second innings effort helped bowl out the tourists for 121 and set up an eight-wicket win.
Harbhajan was involved in further controversy after an 2008 Indian Premier League  match between Mumbai Indians and Kings XI Punjab at Mohali in April 2008.
While the teams were shaking hands, he slapped Punjab paceman and Indian team-mate Sreesanth in the face.
He would have been eligible for selection after the first two matches of the Asia Cup, but the selectors omitted him entirely.
Harbhajan returned to international cricket for the tour of Sri Lanka in July and August.
In the First Test at Colombo, he took 2/149 as Sri Lanka amassed 600/6 declared and won by an innings.
It was his fifth ten-wicket match haul and his first outside India.
He was again India's leading wicket-taker in the Third Test defeat, with 3/104 and 1/44.
He was India's leading wicket-taker with 16 scalps at 28.12, twice as many the second most-prolific Indian.
At the start of the Indian season, Harbhajan took 2/32 and 4/31 as the Rest of India defeated Delhi in the Irani Trophy .
The series also saw the end of Harbhajan's partnership with Kumble, who missed the Second Test due to injury and then retired after suffering another wound in the next match.
He took one wicket in each of the matches, except the third match in Kanpur.
Harbhajan ended the year as the third-highest wicket-taker in the world, and the highest among Indian players.
He was named by Wisden in their selection of the Test team of the year.
He recovered in time to be recalled for the tour of New Zealand.
He took 3/27 in the opening match, and then took 2/56 from ten overs in the third game, in which both teams passed 330, helping India to wins in both matches.
Harbhajan then played the full 2009 Indian Premier League season in South Africa, taking 12 wickets at 21.33 and an economy rate of 5.81 in 13 matches.
He was one of the most economical bowlers in the competition, and took 1/9 in four overs against Punjab to win the man of the match award.
Harbhajan was part of the Indian team that attempted to defend their crown at the 2009 World Twenty20 .
However they lost all three of their matches in the Super 8s round and were eliminated.
Harbhajan took 3/30 in one of those matches against England, and ended the tournament with five wickets at 26.20 and an economy rate of 6.55.
India lost to Pakistan and the latter match was washed out.
He then took 2/14 from eight overs against the West Indies, but it was not enough to prevent India from being eliminated in the first round, despite winning the match.
After his travails in South Africa, Harbhajan started the Indian season with eight wickets at 12.87 in three Challenger Trophy one-dayers for India Blue.
For minor changes, such as grammatical fixes, administrative or legal changes, or corrections of inaccurate statements, we will post the changes and, when possible, provide at least three  calendar days' prior notice via WikimediaAnnounce-L or similar mailing list.
We hope you enjoy using the Wikimedia Sites and appreciate your participation in creating, maintaining, and constantly working to improve the largest repository of free knowledge in the world.
Membership was confined to the governing bodies of cricket within the British Empire where Test cricket was played.
After the formation of Pakistan in 1947, it was given Test status in 1952, becoming the seventh Test-playing nation.
In May 1961 South Africa left the Commonwealth and therefore lost membership.
In 1965, it was renamed as the International Cricket Conference and new rules adopted to permit the election of countries from outside the Commonwealth.
This led to the expansion of the Conference, with the admission of Associate Members.
In 1989, new rules were adopted and the current name, the International Cricket Council came into existence.
Then, in the year 2000 Bangladesh received test status.
This was established in January 1994 and was based in Monaco.
It also had the disadvantage that the Council's cricket administrators, who remained at Lord's, were separated from their commercial colleagues in Monaco.
The Council decided to seek ways of bringing all of their staff together in one office while protecting their commercial income from tax.
It has sought to create other new events to augment its World Cup revenues.
As of April 2012, the Elite Panel includes twelve umpires.
The International Panel is made up of officials nominated from each of the ten Test-playing cricket boards.
Decisions can be appealed, but the original decision is upheld in most cases.
Early and personal life Rayudu completed his schooling from Bhavan's Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalaya, Sainikpuri, Secunderabad.
He is married to Chennupalli Vidya and lives in Hyderabad.
Rayudu made his debut in domestic cricket in the 2001/02 Ranji Trophy season for Hyderabad .
In 2010-11, Rayudu decided to play for Baroda after his former team Hyderabad got relegated to the Plate Division of Ranji Trophy.
He played for Rest of India in the 2013 Irani Cup against Mumbai and scored 51 and 156*.
He was the top-scorer in the 2012–13 Deodhar Trophy final where his innings of 78* helped West Zone chase down the target of 290 against North Zone .
On 18 July 2012, Rayudu was included in 30 probables for the World T20 tournament to be played in Sri Lanka in September 2012  but failed to make it to the final squad.
In December 2012, the newly formed selection panel picked Rayudu as the replacement player for the injured Manoj Tiwary for the T20 series against England.
Rayudu was selected for the Indian tour of Zimbabwe 2013es, which is their highest Test total ever.
He played his last series in the 2014–15 season in India's tour of Australia captaining India in the second and third tests; losing the second and drawing the third, trailing the series 2–0 before the Sydney Test.
He finished his last innings unbeaten making 24 runs.
India also managed to draw the Test series 1–1 in South Africa later that year.
Tendulkar mentioned that it was Dhoni's calm influence that was rubbing off on all his team-mates and described Dhoni's handling of pressure was incredible.
Dhoni leads the table with 33 Tests as captain, 15 ahead of Gerry Alexander in second place.
In March 2013, Dhoni became the most successful Indian Test captain when he eclipsed Sourav Ganguly ’s record of 21 victories from 49 Tests.
Dhoni, being captain of the Indian cricket team, has seldom faced any restrictions not to play in matches, due to slow-over rate.
Hence Virender Sehwag was named the skipper for the two matches in Cuttack and Kolkata.
Dhoni has captained India in two World Cups .
Under his captaincy, India won the World Cup in 2011, and reached the semifinals in 2015.
India made an early exit from the tournament in the Group Stage.
Rahul Dravid captained the team in this World Cup.
In three matches India played, they managed to win only one against Bermuda while losing the rest from Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.
In their first match against Bangladesh, India was all out in just 191 in 49.3 overs.
Dhoni scored 29 off 25 Balls which includes Two 4s and One 6. India won the match by 257 runs.
India was required to win their last group match against the Lankans but they lost by 69 runs.
Chasing the target of 255, India crumbled to 185 all out in 43.3 overs.
Thus, India was out of the world cup in very first round.
The Team was heavily criticized for their performance.
Dhoni's under construction house in Ranchi was attacked by some 200 fans after the Bangladesh loss.
Under Dhoni's captaincy, India won the 2011 World Cup .
In the final against Sri Lanka, chasing 275, Dhoni promoted himself up the batting order, coming before Yuvraj Singh .
When he came to bat India needed more than six runs per over with three top order batsmen already dismissed.
Due to good strokeplay and active running between wickets, they kept up with the required run rate.
Later in the post match presentation, he admitted that he came up the order so as to counter the Muralitharan spin threat as he was very familiar with Murali's bowling, who was his team-mate in the Indian Premier League  franchise Chennai Super Kings .
Dhoni is the present captain of the Chennai Super Kings Team .
Under his captaincy, Chennai Super Kings have won two Indian Premier League titles and the 2010 Champions League Twenty20 .
The first captain of the Pakistan national cricket team was Abdul Hafeez Kardar .
Over the years, competitions between India and Pakistan have always been emotionally charged and provide for intriguing contests, as talented teams and players from both sides of the border elevate their game to new levels to produce high-quality cricket.
Pakistani contests with India in the Cricket World Cup have seen packed stadiums and elevated atmospheres no matter where the World Cup has been held.
However the fans love their team.
Pakistani opener Yasir Hameed playing against Australia at Lord's in England.
Pakistan batted conservatively yet lost wickets at regular intervals.
The match is seen as the emergence of Inzamam onto the international stage.
The 1992 Cricket World Cup in Australia and New Zealand marked Pakistan's first World Cup victory.
It is remembered for the comeback Pakistan made after losing key players such as Waqar Younis and Saeed Anwar and being led by an injured captain Imran Khan .
Imran Khan famously told the team to play as "cornered tigers", after which Pakistan won five successive matches, including, most famously, the semi-final against hosts New Zealand and the final against England.
Pakistan, needing to win to qualify for the next stage after losing to the West Indies in their opening match, were put into bat by Ireland.
In the end they were bowled out by the Irish for 132 runs.
The Irish went on to win the match, after Niall O'Brien scored 72 runs.
This meant that Pakistan had been knocked out during the first round for the second consecutive World Cup.
Due to his top form, Shahid Afridi immersed as PakisArchitecture The central district of Roseau is tightly packed with small and large houses and even larger modern concrete structures.
There is little green or open space situated within the city, and this is even more so today, as many of the courtyards which was once commonplace within the city are giving way to office space.
The district is, however, framed in every direction by natural elements.
The sea and the river provide water element while the Botanical Gardens and the Government House gardens frame the city with green space.
Both these elements are rare in the Caribbean .
No other centre in the region has such extensive botanical gardens with such central location, and the Roseau River is amongst the largest rivers that flow through any Caribbean capital.
There are some fine examples of West Indian architecture in Roseau.
The ones that stand out the most are the French Colonial style and the vernacular form .
Around the city you will come across some good examples of the English influence in the form of large colonial town houses and colonial public/government buildings.
The Roman Catholic Cathedral stands prominent in Gothic Romanesque revival and the Anglican Church on Victoria Street in Georgian style .
Amongst these buildings you will find much of the urban vernacular squeezed in between larger colonial and more modern buildings.
The streets of Roseau, and especially those of its central district, are not only ways to move from place to place but they are places themselves.
They are used as gardens, playing fields, and social meeting places.
Street scene in Roseau The Botanical Gardens on the fringes of the central district are mostly used by children.
Sports and recreation Within the city of Roseau, there are many opportunities for recreation.
Sporting facilities and infrastructure There are dedicated sports facilities around the city.
Private tennis courts are located on High Street; netball and basketball courts also abound in the city's major high schools.
These are complemented by community facilities at Goodwill.
A dedicated netball and basketball stadium is located at Stockfarm near the Dominica State College.
Popular sports include netball, basketball, rounders and  tennis.
Accommodations and Infrastructure There are no world famous hotel chains in the city.
The most famous hotel is the Fort Young Hotel .
In addition there are several small family owned establishments within and on the outskirts of the city.
Roseau is home to service clubs including, Kiwanis, Rotary and Lions.
It is an important link between northern, eastern, and southern bound traffic.
The ferry terminal provides direct links to the neighbouring Guadeloupe to the north and Martinique and St. Lucia to the south.
There are no rail or subway systems.
Roseau has been the historical centre of education on the island.
There are six secondary schools located in the city as well as eight primary schools .
A private medical school, All Saints School of Medicine, also calls Roseau home.
The family hails from the village of Chandanapuri, Tal-Sangamner.
Rahane is married to Radhika Dhopavkar.
Rahane had performed well when India U-19 toured New Zealand in early 2007 with two hundreds.
The scores in New Zealand impressed the selectors and they picked him for the Mohammad Nissar Trophy in Pakistan.
He had no first-class experience prior to this match in Karachi.
They notched up an opening partnership of 247, as Kukreja scored 110.
He made his Ranji Trophy debut for his first-class side Mumbai in the 2007/2008 season.
He continued to impress in domestic cricket, scoring three hundreds each in the 2009–10 and 2010–11 seasons of the Ranji Trophy.
Rahane was named in the Test squad to play the West Indies in November 2011.
Rahane was carried in the squad for 16 months and in his presence, he saw seven players make their debuts.
According to the media, Rahane got this chance through "sheer luck".
Rahane was handed his India Test cap by senior bowler Harbhajan Singh .
Rahane finished as India's third-highest run-getter in the series, but he was in the most precarious position of all before the series began.
Rahane played in the 2014-15 Border-Gavaskar Trophy in Australia.
Rahane failed to impress in his next few limited over matches against West Indies, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and England.
With this, he became the first cricketer from the Kashmir Valley to be picked for India 'A'.
He got his call-up for the national team in 2013 for the Zimbabwe tour .
Rasool finally represented India against Bangladesh on 15 June 2014 at Mirpur where he took two for 60 in 10 overs.
Sachin Tendulkar also scored his 50th Test Match century on this ground.
It hosted an Australian rules football practice match in 2008 between Carlton and Fremantle .
They have won the tournament seven times and have been runners-up seven.
The previous win was in the 1991-92 season when they beat Tamil Nadu in the final.
The team's home ground is Feroz Shah Kotla Ground .
In Wikipedia, it is customary to place category declarations at the end of the wikimarkup, but before any stub templates  and interlanguage links .
They appear as redlinks if the corresponding category page does not exist.
Hidden categories are not displayed, except as described below under Hiding categories .
The page "Category:Name" corresponds to the category called "Name".
".A category page can be edited like any other page.
These are shown with thumbnails.
The first 20 characters of the file name are shown, with an ellipsis if that is not the full name; also the file size is shown.
For the way in which the lists are ordered, see Sort order below.
The first and second lists are divided into sections, according to the first character of the sort key.
These initial characters are displayed above the sections.
This contains the categories to which the current category page has been added, i.e. its parent categories .
Thus "1 dog", "11 dogs", and "112 dogs" all appear under the "1" heading .
This will cause "112 dogs" to appear before "2 dogs" on the category page.
It is useful to document the system being used for sort keys on the category page.
On Wikipedia, the magic word is not normally used explicitly, but is applied through the {{ hiddencat }} template.
Hidden categories are automatically added to Category:Hidden categories .
When the template is transcluded into the page, the category link becomes active, and the page is added to the category page.
Changes to the template, however, may not be reflected immediately on the category page.
To add the template itself to the category page as well, omit the "includeonly" tags.
Calling the template with "cat="  disables putting the page in any category.
On Wikipedia it is not recommended that templates be used to populate ordinary content categories of articles.
See Categorization using templates in the categorization guideline.
The category tag must be placed after the redirect link.
For conventions on the categorization of redirects in Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Categorizing redirects .
In addition to browsing through hierarchies of categories, it is possible to use the search tool to find specific articles in specific categories.
An "OR" can be added to join the contents of one category with the contents of another.
Note that using search to find categories will not find articles which have been categorized using templates.
Shahid Afridi was announced player of the match in both Semifinal and Final of the Tournament vs SA and SL respectively.
The 2010 World T20 was held in West Indies, where Pakistan was able to reached for the semi-final stage.
Pakistan, Australia and Bangladesh were in Group A. Pakistan won the first match against Bangladesh by 21 runs.
Salman Butt became the hero of the match with his 73 runs from just 46 balls.
The second match for Pakistan was with Australia, where Australia won the toss and elected to bat.
They scored 191/10 with 49 ball 81 runs by Shane Watson .
In this match, final over of Australian innings was bowled by Mohammad Aamer .
In Super 8s stage, Pakistan lost to England, and New Zealand, only won against South Africa.
Australia scored 197/7 in 19.5 overs and won the match.
With this match, Pakistan lost their defended World T20 title.
Pakistan's results in international matches One of Symonds' biological parents was of West Indian background and the other was believed to be of Danish or Swedish descent.
Since making his debut for the Queensland state team in the 1994–95 season Symonds has scored more than 5,000 runs and taken more than 100 wickets for his state.
In doing so, he beat the previous mark set by New Zealand's John R. Reid .
Between 1999 and 2004 Symonds played for Kent.
In April 2010 he signed for Surrey to play in the Friends Provident t20 competition.
The same team also secured Australian team-mate Adam Gilchrist for US$700,000.
On 24 April 2008 Symonds made 117 not out off 53 balls against the Rajasthan Royals .
The Royals ended up winning that match as Symonds bowled the last over and conceded 19 runs when the Royals required 17 runs from six balls.
Symonds started the third season convincingly scoring two 50s in his first three games with the Mongoose Cricket Bat .
In the fourth season, Symonds was contracted by Mumbai Indians for US$850,000.
In March 2004, Symonds made his long-awaited Test debut in Australia's tour of Sri Lanka after showing great form in One Day International cricket in 2003.
Then, with his batting average threatening to drop under 10 and bowling average pushing 100, Symonds took 3/50 in the South African first innings before blasting 72 off 54 balls in the second innings  and taking 2/6.
Symonds won Player of the Series in the 2005–06 Australian VB Series .
Symonds required four stitches on the inside of his upper lip.
Struggling for reliable impact, Symonds was again dropped at the end of this series.
Following the retirement of Damien Martyn during the Ashes in 2006–07 Symonds was again recalled to the team.
In the Boxing Day Test Symonds faced his biggest challenge when arriving at the crease with Australia in deep trouble at 5/84.
Symonds was finally dismissed for 156.
Surgery was performed and Symonds underwent extensive physical rehabilitation.
Even the final few overs of the Sri Lanka innings were played in almost darkness.
During Sri Lanka's tour of Australia in 2007–08 he had good form with the bat but had an ankle injury which ruled him out of the rest of the Test series.
Symonds playing for Australia against India in 2008.
When Michael Clarke  of 173 until Hogg was dismissed for 79.
Symonds was the beneficiary of some controversial decisions in the course of his innings.
At stumps on the first day, Symonds was not out on 137, and Australia 376/7.
By the end of the innings, Symonds finished on 162 not out, when the Australians were finally bowled out for 463.
Lee made his Twenty20 and T20 International debut on 15 February 2005 against New Zealand in the first ever T20 international match.
Ponting then scored 10 and 59 as Australia recorded comfortable innings victories in their inaugural series against Bangladesh, played in Darwin and Cairns in the tropical north of Australia in the winter of 2003.
Australia played New Zealand in match three of series in Faridabad .
An early 9 am start saw New Zealand bowled out for 97, despite Australia bowling 17 wides.
Harbhajan had been sent home after the First Test with an injury to his spinning finger.
After Steve Waugh 's retirement at the beginning of 2004 following the drawn home series against India, Ponting assumed the Test captaincy.
A leader must earn respect and lead from the front, and on both of these counts Punter has undoubtedly excelled.
Steve Waugh writing about Ponting replacing him as Australian captain After Steve Waugh 's  retirement at the beginning of 2004 following the drawn home series against India, Ponting assumed the Test captaincy.
However, this backfired and Symonds was dropped after two Tests.
Individually though, Ponting struggled, especially in comparison to his efforts in 1999.
He scored 198 runs at 33.00, his only effort beyond 30 being 92 in the first innings of the Third Test at the Sinhalese Sports Club ground in Colombo.
Australia hosted Sri Lanka for two Tests during the winter, in the tropical north.
They were knocked out by hosts England in the semifinals in 2004.
After missing most of the tour of India due to injury, Ponting returned for the Fourth Test.
By this time, Australia had taken an unassailable 2–0 series lead, his deputy Gilchrist leading the tourists to their first Test series win in India since 1969–70.
The reasoning given by the selectors was that as they intended to play only one spinner—Warne—MacGill was unlikely to play so they would not lose anything by taking some young spinners instead, in order to gain experience.
However, it was too late for MacGill to be flown in, and Hauritz played and took 5/103.
Ponting was very vocal in criticising the playing surface after the match.
Ponting signing autographs in Sydney, 2005, before he scored his fourth career double century.
They won all five Tests, defeating New Zealand 2–0 and Pakistan 3–0.
In the First Test against Pakistan in Perth, Ponting made 98 in the second innings.
Australia went on to crush the visitors by over 400 runs.
Ponting struck 62 not out in the second innings as Australia won by nine wickets in the Second Test in Melbourne, and then brought up his maiden century as captain, scoring 207 in the New Year's Test in Sydney, which ended in another convincing nine-wicket triumph.
He ended the series with 403 runs at 100.75.
Ponting ended the series in style, scoring 105 and 86 not out in the Third Test win in New Zealand.
In his first Test series in the country, he scored 293 runs at 97.66.
After the first two matches the score was 1–1.
Ponting scored 156, the first Australian century of the series, and was dismissed only four overs from the end of the day.
Also in this match Ponting bowled six overs, and took his first wicket since March 1999; Michael Vaughan caught behind by Adam Gilchrist .
Thus, the Ashes were lost for the first time in 16 years.
Twin centuries in 100th Test Main articles: 2005–06 Chappell–Hadlee Trophy and South African cricket team in Australia in 2005–06Ponting during his 124 against Sri Lanka on 12 February 2006 at the Sydney Cricket Ground.
In any case, Australia were untroubled during the 2005–06 season.
They whitewashed the West Indies 3–0 before defeating South Africa 2–0 in three Tests.
It was the first time anyone had scored two centuries in their 100th Test and Ponting was named man of the match and man of the series.
He had scored 515 runs at 103.00.
Ponting and Kookaburra agreed to comply, before the series against South Africa.
Australia continued their run in South Africa even in the absence of McGrath for family reasons.
Ponting scored 103 and 116 in the Second Test in Durban, making it three Test centuries in consecutive innings at the ground.
He ended the series with 348 runs at 58.00.
The Australians moved on to their maiden Test tour of Bangladesh thereafter, and narrowly avoided an ignominious loss in the First Test at Fatullah.
He scored 52 in the Second Test as Australia won by an innings and took the series 2–0.
Despite Australia this time having the advantage of playing on its own soil, the England team that had wrested the Ashes from the Australians was expected to be highly competitive.
At the conclusion of the match, Ponting's batting average peaked at 59.99.
The 15 months they had been in English hands was the shortest period either nation had held the urn.
However, they stumbled and lost 2–0 to England in the finals.
Australia left for St Vincent, Australia's venue for its two warm-up matches against Zimbabwe and England on 28 February without Brett Lee because of ankle damage.
Ponting himself began successfully with an innings of 113 from 93 deliveries that included five sixes, as Australia were dominant in 203-run victory against Scotland.
Despite scoring just 23 in the next match against the Netherlands, Australia still amassed 358 and proceeded to win by 229 runs.
In their next match against South Africa, Australia amassed 377/6—their highest score in World Cups.
Australia comfortably qualified for the Super Eights with their first match played at the new Antigua Recreation Ground in Antigua .
Ponting stated that he was not very impressed with the outfield labelling it "ridiculously sandy".
The Australian captain was run out when on 35, with his team amassing 322 mainly thanks to 158 from Hayden.
Grenada was again the venue for Australia's final super eights match, this time against New Zealand.
With his men now firm favourites for the tournament, they again came up against South Africa in the semi-final.
South Africa, who were reeling at 27/5, ended up setting Australia 150 to win.
The pair had taken more than 1250 Test wickets between them, and the only three Test defeats that Australia had suffered under Ponting, once against India in Mumbai in 2004 and the two against England in 2005, had all occurred when one of the two were injured.
Now that both had gone, critics wondered whether Australia and Ponting could maintain their success with their two main strike weapons absent.
However, the series against India was much harder-fought.
Australia won the First Test easily, by 337 runs, but the matches thereafter were more difficult.
The Second Test was closely fought and ended in Australian victory minutes before the end of play.
This saw Australia equal the world record of 16 consecutive Test wins; Ponting, was part of Steve Waugh side that set the previous record in 1999–2001.
However, the cricket was overshadowed by player conduct issues.
After the match ended the stadium erupted in cheering as the Indians walked off the field, and the Australians celebrated their record-equalling win.
In the early part of the Test series against India, Ponting continued to struggle against Harbhajan, falling to him three consecutive times in the first two Tests.
On the third occasion, Ponting was again caught at bat pad, from the first ball that Harbhajan bowled to him, prompting the bowler to celebrate raucously.
Harbhajan missed the Third Test and upon his return in the fourth Test, Ponting broke through for his first Test century against India in matches involving Harbhajan, scoring 140.
The Adelaide Test aside, Ponting had an otherwise unproductive season, scoring 268 runs at 38.28.
Australia won two of their three round robin matches against the Indians, but the tables were turned in the finals, which the tourists won 2–0.
Third Australian to score 10,000 Test runs Main article: Australian cricket team in the West Indies in 2008The tour of the West Indies was the first overseas Test series for Australia in 25 months, and the first for Ponting's new look bowling attack.
He acknowledged that he was keen to rectify his poor Test batting record in India.
This meant that he was not able to use pace spearhead Brett Lee significantly.
Ponting amassed 87 in Australia's first innings score of 577.
In the meantime, captain MS Dhoni and Harbhajan both added half centuries.
When the fast bowlers were reintroduced, the last four wickets fell quickly.
This left Australia chasing 382 runs for victory and they lost by 172 runs to cede the series 2–0.
In the first innings, Ponting became Harbhajan's 300th Test wicket and the Australian captain ended the series with 264 runs at 37.71.
While below his career standards, it was substantially better than his previous Test efforts in India.
Australia were largely untroubled by New Zealand, sweeping both Tests.
Ponting scored only 100 runs at 33.33.
His persistent problems with the over rate prompted some commentators to criticise him for spending too much time during the match conferring with bowlers.
Ponting's inexperienced attack had trouble dismissing the opposition batsmen, and South Africa made 4/414, the second highest successful runchase in history to win by six wickets on the final day.
However, he again exceeded 1,000 runs in the calendar year.
Ponting totalled 285 runs at 47.50 for the series.
With the retirement of experienced opening batsman Matthew Hayden—who was replaced by the uncapped 20-year-old Phillip Hughes —the Australian team that toured South Africa in February, March and April 2009 was its most inexperienced since the defections to World Series Cricket .
This was further compounded by the loss of Andrew Symonds to injury, who was replaced by the uncapped Marcus North .
The bowling attack also required major changes, due to the injuries to Brett Lee and Stuart Clark .
Subsequently, paceman Mitchell Johnson was the only bowler with more than four Tests heading into the series.
Ponting was praised for cobbling together an unexpected win, as South Africa were thought to be stronger on home soil.
He scored eighties in the first two Tests, ending with 210 runs at 35.00.
Ponting could only manage two and 38, as Australia were defeated in the second Test at Lords —their first Test defeat at the venue since 1934.
The match was eventually drawn, partly due to poor weather.
You can tell by the way the team respond to him that his leadership skills are among the finest.
Ponting fielding during First Test in Cardiff Australia went onto lose the series 2–1 and Ponting became only the third Australian captain to lose the Ashes twice.
Instances of these were the first three Tests in India, the omission of Krejza for the First Test against New Zealand immediately after taking 12 wickets on debut, and opting for no spinner in the first two Tests in South Africa.
He was succeeded as Australian Twenty20 captain by team vice-captain Michael Clarke .
In the opening match, Ponting top-scored for Australia with 74 from 85 balls, as his team narrowly escaped defeat.
Troubles against the short ball Main article: Pakistani cricket team in Australia in 2009–10Ponting scored the first ever double-century  in the Third Test against Pakistan.
Leading West Indian batsmen Chris Gayle and Shivnarine Chanderpaul returned for the opening Test of the 2009–10 Australian cricket season starting on 26 November in Brisbane, after the industrial dispute was resolved.
Ponting scored 55 in an Australian innings victory,  However, former Australian Test opening batsman Justin Langer labelled Hogg's comments as "rubbish", something that was backed by Katich.
In the first innings of the Third and final Test, Ponting was immediately greeted with short pitched bowling.
After battling through obvious discomfort, Ponting eventually retired hurt on 23 from 25 balls—the only time he had taken such action in his international career.
He fell for only 11 in the second innings, and when Australia lost their eighth wicket, they were only just over 50 ahead.
After being dropped on zero, Ponting scored his fifth double-century in the Third and final Test in Hobart.
Australia entered the 2010–11 Ashes series hoping to regain The Ashes from England on home soil as they had four years previously.
The First Test in Brisbane was drawn after both sides posted large batting totals.
Ponting was caught behind for 10 in the first innings and 51 not out in the second.
World Cup and resignation as captain Ponting retained the captaincy of Australia for the 2011 World Cup in India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.
Australia qualified for the quarter-finals, although Ponting failed to find form, scoring 102 runs in five innings during the group stage of the tournament.
He made his debut in the opening match of the series, on 24 July 2013, and was crucial in setting up an Indian win.
The exact nature of the talks was unknown, but it was speculated that Rayudu rejected the offer.
The bowler on the receiving end of this was Lakshmipathy Balaji .
The following year, in the same tournament, Uthappa made match-winning 93-ball 100 against the same team which propelled him in the big league.
He did not feature in the first two games.
He was selected in the 15-member squad of the Indian team for the 2007 Cricket World Cup held in the West Indies in March–April 2007.
Used to batting as an opener, in this match he came in at the unfamiliar position of no 7.
India subsequently won the match in bowl out 3–0, where he bowled one of the three deliveries that hit the stumps.
In November 2014, Robin was included into Indian One Day International squad for the last two matches against Sri Lanka.
Robin was included in 30 men Indian squad for 2015 Cricket World Cup .
In his very first match he scored 48 runs from 38 balls against Royal Challengers Bangalore .
Then he scored 34 off just 21 deliveries to lead Mumbai to an emphatic victory over the in-form Rajasthan Royals .
In January 2009, he was swapped with Zaheer Khan and moved to Royal Challengers Bangalore .
He also won the Man of the match award for this effort.
He ended the season with 374 runs from 14 innings at an average of 31.16.
He also hit 27 sixes, which was the most by any batsman in that season.
According to Bangalore Mirror, Few Days before the start of Champions league T20 Robin Uttappa convert to Roman Catholicism at the Holy Ghost Church in Bangalore.
Bernard Moras, the Archbishop of Bangalore presided over and conducted the ceremony.
After Australia lost the test series in India two-nil, Symonds was recalled for the test series against New Zealand in November 2008.
He then played in the first two tests of the next series against South Africa but performed poorly and was omitted from the team for the third test due to injury; at the same time, many critics called for his omission on performance grounds.
The interview led to his being charged with violating the Cricket Australia code of conduct.
In the meantime Symonds continued to play for Queensland, but was not selected by Australia, missing three five-match series against South Africa, New Zealand and South Africa respectively.
Appearance in reality shows Symonds was the first International Cricketer after Vinod Kambli to enter the Bigg Boss house.
Bucknor also stood in the next four World Cup finals in 1996, 1999, 2003 and 2007, with the 2007 World Cup taking place in his native West Indies.
In May 2006, he accused TV companies of doctoring their images to make umpires look bad and key players look good.
Achievements as an umpire Bucknor has stood as an onfield umpire in five World Cup tournaments, during which he has officiated 44 matches including five finals.
Bucknor holds the record for the most Test matches umpired, and was the first umpire to have officiated in over 100 Test matches .
The match was the only T20I played by former Indian captain Rahul Dravid .
Rahane was part of Indian team make it to the final of 2014 World T20 .
Previously he was in the Mumbai Indians squads and got limited opportunities.
Michael Vaughan won the toss and chose to bat first.
No further wickets fell in the morning session although Strauss was dropped on 43 by Dinesh Karthik at the stroke of lunch.
He turned back however when he saw his team mates at the pavilion waving him to go back when they saw Steve Bucknor telling Simon Taufel he thought the ball had not carried.
TV replays showed the ball did not carry and Pietersen was given not out by the third umpire Ian Gould .
This decision did not cost India however as Pietersen did not score any runs before being caught.
Dinesh Karthik was dismissed early on lbw and India could have been 16/2 had Prior not drop Wasim Jaffer in the second over.
Sachin Tendulkar consolidated India's innings however scoring 80 runs with Jaffer before he was dismissed on 37. India lost one further wicket of Jaffer  and closed the day on 145/4.
James Anderson got his career best bowling figures of 5/42 in this innings.
Andrew Strauss and Alastair Cook negotiated the final two overs of the session before lunch was taken.
At the restart Zaheer Khan left-handed swing troubled the opening batsmen with Strauss and Cook going out in quick succession before play stopped.
After the rain interruption Vaughan and Pietersen survived the final 35 minutes of the play to end the day on 77/2 leading the game by 174 runs.
England scored 25 runs before Vaughan was clean bowled by R. P. Singh .
Collingwood and Bell 's wickets soon followed and England were 132/5.
No further wickets fell in the morning session and England went into lunch at 161/5.
Singh got his bowling figures of 5/59 in this innings.
India lost the key wickets of Dravid and Tendulkar both out lbw.
India lost two early wickets of Sourav Ganguly  meaning that any chance of an Indian victory disappeared.
This left Dhoni with the task of rear guard which was to protect the tail from the English attack.
Pietersen was awarded man of the match for his 134 century.
Before the redevelopment After the redevelopment The venue is home to Glamorgan County Cricket Club which has played its home matches there since 24 May 1967, Sophia Gardens has been an international cricket venue since 20 May 1999, when it played host to the 1999 Cricket World Cup match between Australia and New Zealand .
He was then promoted to the opening position with Gautam Gambhir and performed well in the India-leg of the season.
He played his early cricket there with the same cricket club for which Michael Holding also played cricket—the Melbourne club.
Walsh first claim to fame came in 1979 when he took 10 wickets in an innings in school cricket and three years later made his first-class cricket debut.
In the 1987–88 season, Walsh toured India and played four Test matches against them, taking 26 wickets at an average of 16.80.
In 1994, he was appointed captain of the West Indies for the tours of India and New Zealand after Richie Richardson was ordered to rest because of "acute fatigue syndrome".
In the 1990s, his partnership with Curtly Ambrose was one of the most feared bowling attacks in world cricket.
During the first part of his career, Walsh served as the "stock" bowler in an attack featuring Marshall, Joel Garner and later Ambrose, but after the retirement of Marshall and Garner took the role as opening bowler.
His action lacked the elegance of those bowlers, but its economy and his natural athleticism ensured he was accurate and durable, even over very long spells and he used his height  to extract occasionally vicious bounce.
Even as he lost pace in the later stage of his career he continued to take wickets at an undiminished rate; teams tended to defend against him and Ambrose and attack the weaker third and fourth bowlers.
A graph showing Walsh's test career bowling statistics and how they have varied over time.
These four, in addition to Glenn McGrath are also the only bowlers to have taken 500 or more Test wickets.
His highest score, coincidentally, was 30 in both forms of the game.
Whether this was in appreciation of his batting or an attempt to wind up the bowling side is open to interpretation.
In May 2004, Walsh was chosen one of the Jamaica's five greatest cricketers of all time.
This was his solitary five-wicket haul in the format.
The opening ball of the 2009 Ashes series, bowled by Mitchell Johnson to Andrew Strauss .
An increasingly agitated home side had been frustrated as Tendulkar and Amit Mishra added 144 for the fourth wicket, but once Swann made the breakthrough the rest of India's resistance crumbled.
The innings folded in 15 overs with England winning by an innings and eight runs.
It continued to prove elusive.
Only Rahul Dravid and Steve Waugh, with ten, have more nineties.
Tim Bresnan, with his first ball of new spell, swung one back into Tendulkar, who was hit on the pad, and Rod Tucker raised his finger.
Replays showed it was clipping leg stump.
The look on Tendulkar's face when he was finally given suggested he too would have reviewed given the chance, but it wouldn't have mattered.
To highlight that Tendulkar's innings wasn't fluent, it was Mishra who dominated the partnership and caused England, possibly, the greater headache.
His second Test fifty had come from 103 balls, and he used his feet against Swann, while playing leg-side shots off the quicks that wouldn't have looked out of place coming off Tendulkar's bat.
For all his failings with the ball, Mishra showed tremendous application with the bat that has been missing from some of his team-mates.
Mishra's presence, and the missed chances off Tendulkar, had certainly got England hot under the collar and Andrew Strauss was given an official warning for his players walking across the pitch.
England's on-field temper can still boil over, but it showed the hunger to win.
The final two days of this match were of terrific value to them, even if the foot-sore bowlers might not agree, because Test victories shouldn't come easily.
To be made to work, as they were yesterday by Rahul Dravid and today by Tendulkar and Mishra, and to come through with victory, will stand them in good stead.
England know how to sense an opening and continued to surge through line-up.
There was an inside edge before pad and the ball was also heading over the stumps.
The user password  does not encrypt the file, and instead relies on client software to respect these restrictions, and is not secure.
Some solutions, like Adobe's LiveCycle Rights Management, are more robust means of information rights management, which can not only restrict who can open documents but also reliably enforce permissions in ways that the standard security handler does not.
Adobe Reader provides support for attachments, and poppler based readers like Evince or Okular also have some support for document-level attachments.
This is stored in the optional Info trailer of the file.
A small set of fields is defined, and can be extended with additional text values if required.
Adobe Systems ceased development of Mars in 2008.
However, the file size will be different, and it will not be possible to search for text.
These processes are inaccessible to some disabled people.
The three views are .
It was activated with Adobe Acrobat, but not with Acrobat Reader.
The restrictions on copying, editing, or printing depend on the reader software to obey them, so the security they provide is limited.
This controls documents that are otherwise "in the wild."
Adobe Reader uses these settings to override the user's default settings when opening the document.
The free Adobe Reader cannot remove these settings.
Typically higher resolution is needed for printing documents than for displaying them on screen.
In Xournal annotations may be moved, copied and pasted.
In 2011, Ponting was inducted into Australian Institute of Sport  'Best of the Best'.
Tasmania and Surrey After retiring from test cricket, Ponting played out the Sheffield Shield season with eventual champions Tasmania .
He was the competition's leading run scorer with 911 runs at an average of 75.91.
He signed on to play for the English County side Surrey during June–July 2013.
At the formal opening of the Bellerive Oval redevelopment in January 2015, it was announced that the new Western Stand would be named the Ricky Ponting Stand in his honour.
When he got to 135, he scored the highest individual runs for an Otago Volts player.
McCullum played for Glamorgan in 2006 and he scored 160 opening the batting against Leicestershire in the County Championship.
This was an exercise to allow him to be eligible to play for them in the Twenty20 Champions League.
This sparked criticism however despite opinion States are permitted to have one overseas player in their squad.
McCullum also donated his match fee from the game to Otago Junior Cricket.
McCullum reached his 50 off 32 deliveries and his century off 65 deliveries.
His maiden Test century came several months later when he scored 143 against Bangladesh .
On 31 December 2007 he scored 50 from just 19 balls against Bangladesh.
On 18 April 2008, he achieved the highest Twenty20 individual score in an innings.
Englishman Graham Napier .
He returned to the Knight Riders in 2012.
He was given the role of opening the innings along with West Indian Dwayne Smith and the pair was considered as the most dangerous opening pair in the league's history.
Ross Taylor at first slip did the same.
This record was broken by Aaron Finch on the 29th of August against England, when he scored 156.
However McCullum still remains the only player to have scored two Twenty20 International centuries.
He also delivered brutal innings against Australia, and South Africa in the semi-final as well.
McCullum became the first New Zealand captain to lead his team to the World Cup finals, by putting the six semi-final losses in the past.
On 21 May 2015, McCullum started in his 93rd consecutive test, and batting in his preferred spot at no. 5. .
His glovework improved during his tenure as the New Zealand wicketkeeper.
The stint included the entire domestic 2006 Twenty20 Cup.
He can also execute reverse sweep well.
During the Twenty20 World Championship in 2009, the wicketkeeping duties was given to Peter McGlashan .
He was seen practicing his medium bowling.
Anwar carried his bat at Eden Gardens scoring 188 not out, his career best in Test cricket Anwar was an outstanding opener in Test cricket.
Curtly Ambrose and Ian Bishop dismissed him in the first and second innings respectively.
Anwar played three Test during Pakistan's tour of Australia in 1999–2000 season, scoring 282 runs at the average of 47.00.
After the end of his playing career, Sridhar began his coaching career in 2001.
From 2007 to 2011, he coached Hyderabad Under-19 team for three years and Hyderabad Under-16 team for one year.
He was then appointed the fielding coach of the India Under-19 cricket team in 2011.
Ricky Bhui  is an Indian U19 cricketer .
".A batsman in his normal stance will raise his bat  as the bowler bowls which can make the yorker difficult to play when it arrives at the batsman's feet.
A batsman may only realise very late that the delivery is of yorker length and will jam their bat down to "dig out" the yorker.
Though the length of the delivery is the defining feature of the yorker, the batsman's difficulty in playing the yorker reflects his misreading the length rather than difficulty in playing that length.
Use of the yorker Yorkers are very difficult to play.
A bowler who achieves swing when bowling yorkers can be even more dangerous, as the ball will deviate sideways as it travels towards the batsman, making it even harder to hit.
Yorkers can also be aimed directly at the batsman's feet, forcing the batsman to shift his feet while attempting to play the ball, or risk being hit.
It is also particularly effective in the later stages of an innings in one-day cricket, because it is the most difficult of all deliveries to score off even if defended successfully.
Runs will often only be scored off edges or straight down the ground.
Lengths of balls showing name and bounce height.
Angles are exaggerated.
His success came from good timing.
Records and achievements Named as one of the Wisden Cricketers of the Year in 1997.
He holds the highest Test batting average  of any Pakistani against Australia in Test matches.
He announced his retirement from International cricket on 15 August 2003, after he was dropped from the squad for the upcoming One-Day International tournament in Sharjah.
Ceylon, as the country was known before 1972, played its first first-class match under that name against Marylebone Cricket Club at Nomads Ground, Victoria Park, Colombo in 1926–27, losing by an innings .
The Ceylonese side competed against Madras in the M. J. Gopalan Trophy games from the 1950s, through the change of name to Sri Lanka, well into the 1970s.
Sri Lanka were later awarded Test cricket status in 1981, by the International Cricket Council .
In the first quarter finals, Sri Lanka played with England, where Sanath devastated the English players with his fast 82 runs just off 44 balls.
Sri Lanka came into bat first, but their first three wickets were taken very early.
But then, Aravinda and Roshan Mahanama paced the innings with their half-centuries.
Skipper Arjuna and Hashan Tillakaratne also played valuable innings.
But the Sri Lankan bowling was so good, Navjot Singh Sidhu and skipper Mohammad Azharuddin got out very early.
When India was 120/8, the Indian fans got aggressive, throwing bottles and other materials into the ground, where the match could not be continued further.
Sri Lanka went on to their first finals in World Cup history.
Before the match, former 1992 Cricket World Cup winning captain Imran Khan talked with Sri Lankan captain Ranatunga, stating that if they won the toss, to choose batting first.
This was because the ground was more favorable to batting first and bowling under lights.
In the toss however, Ranatunga won the match, but chose to field first.
Sri Lanka's game style over the course of the series revolutionised One Day International Cricket, and was characterised by the highly aggressive batting of their openers Sanath Jayasuriya and Romesh Kaluwitharana in the first fifteen overs of the innings to take advantage of the fielding restrictions imposed during this period.
Cricket World Cup hosted by England and Netherlands, where Sri Lanka came as defending champions.
Sri Lanka played their first group match with England, where they only scored 204 bowled out in 48.2 overs.
In the second group match, against South Africa, they played badly.
By chasing 199 runs of South Africa, Sri Lanka only scored 110 runs, only Mahanama scored 36 runs.
Zimbabwe only scored 197/9 and Sri Lanka scored 198/6.
Sri Lanka played only 216/10, and India won by 157 runs.
With this loss, Sri Lanka eliminated from the World Cup.
Being the champions in last World Cup, this world cup campaign was really disappointed.
Their last match was against Kenyans, where Sri Lanka won the match by 45 runs.
Cricket World Cup was moved to the African continent, where South Africa, Zimbabwe and Kenya hosted the tournament.
Sanath Jayasuriya lead the team.
The first match was against New Zealand, where Blackcaps captain Stephen Fleming won the toss and sent Sri Lanka in to bat first.
Skipper Jayasuriya dominated the Blackcaps bowling attack by scoring 120 runs.
The final score at the end of the innings was 272/7.
Scott Styris overpassed Jayasuriya's batting by his 141 runs, but New Zealand all out for 217 in the total.
Sri Lanka won by 47 runs and Jayasuriya was named man of the match.
With this feat, Vaas became the third of only four players to have achieved two hat tricks.
Bangladesh poorly scored 124/10.
They lost the match to underdog Kenyans for the first time.
Sri Lanka came to bat, only Aravinda scored 41 runs.
All the others scored less than 30.
Last group match was against South Africa, Sri Lanka batted first and scored 268/9.
South Africa was at 229/6 when rain came.
Finally Sri Lanka reached top of the Pool B, and selected for the quarter finals.
In the quarter finals, they lost to Australia and India, only won over Zimbabwe.
This result gave them fourth place in standings, where Kenya recorded first semi-final occasion in the history.
Sri Lanka's semi-final was against Australia.
This is the match in which Adam Gilchrist famously "walked" despite being given not out.
The 12 teams were grouped into four groups, where Sri Lanka in group B. India, Bangladesh and Bermuda played with Sri Lanka in group matches.
Bermuda's World Cup debut became the second-heaviest defeat at the World Cup, 40 runs worse than Scotland's defeat the day before.
After Sri Lanka won the toss and batted, they scored 321/6 in 50 overs while skipper Jayawardene, Kumar Sangakkara and Chamara Silva all collected half-centuries.
Kevin Hurdle took two wickets for Bermuda, but his second over lasted 14 balls due to no-balls and wides.
Bermuda fell to 20 for four after Lasith Malinga had taken three wickets in three overs, ending with bowling figures of three for 10.
Farveez Maharoof removed both before Murali had Dwayne Leverock lbw to end the innings for 78, Bermuda's lowest total ever in One-day Internationals.
Sri Lanka won the match by 243 runs.
Next match for Sri Lanka was against Bangladesh, who won the match against India and was in good performance before coming to this match.
Indeed, it was only due to the rain during Bangladesh' innings and the consequently readjusted target that the margin of victory was smaller; Bangladesh were bowled out for 112, with all the Sri Lankan bowlers except Jayasuriya taking wickets, but Jayasuriya had already contributed with seven sixes in his 24th One-day International century as Sri Lanka totalled 318 for four.
Spinners Mohammad Rafique and Abdur Razzak were the only ones to keep the economy rate below five an over, while for Sri Lanka only Russel Arnold cost more than five an over.
Last group match was against the neighbors-India, who was at brink of eliminating from the tournament.
So the match was highly valuable to Indians than Lankans.
Tharanga, however, batted through nearly two thirds of the match for his 64, and none of the bowlers managed to keep the run rate below four as Sri Lanka made it to 254 for six, due to poor cricket from India.
Tendulkar followed in the next over, bowled by Dilhara Fernando for his second duck of the tournament, but Virender Sehwag and skipper Rahul Dravid made it through the next ten overs, before the "turning point" arrived when Murali had Sehwag caught at first slip in his third over; the next six overs yielded only 14 runs and two more wickets, after Dhoni went lbw to Murali, and India needed 141 runs off 22 overs.
India eliminated and Sri Lanka through to Super 8s.
Super 8s has gone pretty well for Sri Lankans, with their performances, only lost to South Africa and Australia.
Sri Lanka won the toss and elected to bat, and lost their first five wickets for 98, with Charl Langeveldt taking two in his first spell.
Then Lasith Malinga struck and show begun.
With this feat, Lasith Malinga became the only bowler to get four consecutive wickets in four balls in any form of the game.
Next match was against the hosts-West Indies.
Jayasuriya and Jayawardene added 183 for the third wicket, before Dilshan came in and took 39 off 22 deliveries as the final eleven overs yielded 84 runs.
In reply, West Indies needed 170 off 94 when Ramnaresh Sarwan was stumped off Jayasuriya; they only got 56 of those, and were bowled out for 190, with four batsmen out in single figures.
Sri Lanka won the match by huge 113 runs.
England then lost two more wickets for seven runs to Dilhara Fernando, and required 103 off 16.3 overs with four wickets in hand.
However, Fernando returned for the last over, and bowled Bopara off the last ball giving Sri Lanka victory.
Sri Lanka won two of last three matches -won against New Zealand and Ireland, lost to Australia, secured their place to semi-finals.
In the semi, Sri Lanka met New Zealand again, where Sri Lanka scored 289/7 courtesy of century by skipper Jayawardena.
New Zealand only scored 208 runs and eliminated from the World Cup.
Sri Lanka selected for their second final in World Cups, against same opponent as in 1996-Australians.
Aussie skipper Ricky Ponting won the toss and elected to bat.
However, the start of play was delayed due to rain, and the match was reduced to 38 overs per side.
While Sri Lankan batsmen Sangakkara and Jayasuriya were adding 116 for the second wicket, the contest was alive, but after the pair got out, Sri Lanka's chances slowly diminished.
Further rain forced the reduction of Sri Lanka's innings to just 36 overs, with the target revised to 269.
At the end of the 33rd over, with Sri Lanka still trailing the adjusted D/L target by 37 runs, the umpires suspended the game due to bad light.
With Sri Lanka needing 61 runs from 18 deliveries, Jayawardene agreed there was no need to return the following day, and instructed his team to resume batting, with Ponting agreeing to play only spinners.
The umpires later apologised for their error: the match should have ended then with Australia winning by 37 runs.
Kenya won the toss and gave Lankans to bat first.
Tharanga and Jayasuriya started the innings, but Tharanga was bowled by Thomas Odoyo .
Then Sangakkara joined Jayasuriya.
The show time begun then, where Jayasuriya and Jayawardena scored unfaithfully for all the bowlers.
Sri Lanka was 215/6 in 18 overs, when Jehan Mubarak came to the crease.
He scored an unbelievable sixes down the ground to Nehemiah Odhiambo and Peter Ongondo .
The strike rate of this innings was 353.84.
Sri Lanka finished with 260/6, which recorded highest T20 total in any top-level Twenty20 match .
Kenyans came to bat with chasing the huge task.
Kenya never recovered, and were reduced to just 88 runs in the 20th over as Sri Lanka dismissed their batsmen cheaply.
Next group match was with Blackcaps, where they scored 164/7.
Jayasuriya became the Man-of-the-Match in both these matches.
The crucial match to qualify for the semi-finals was with Australians and Sri Lanka only scored 101 against Aussie pacers.
Australia won the match by 10 wickets and Sri Lanka eliminated from the tournament.
The second T20 tournament was given England to host.
Kumar Sangakkara lead the Sri Lankan team in the tournament.
Within Group C, they played with West Indies and Australia.
Next match was with West Indies, who were in poor performance in the T20 cricket.
Sri Lanka batted first scored 192/5 courtesy of blistering 81 runs from Jayasuriya.
He played the shot in almost every match in this series, which earned him good runs.
West Indies only scored 177/5 in 20 overs and Sri Lanka through to the Super 8s.
Against Pakistan, Sri Lanka won the match by 19 runs.
Dilshan scored 46 runs with some innovative Dilscoops.
Dilshan played another magnificent 48 runs and Mendis took 3/9 in the bowling.
The semi-final was against West Indies for the second time in the tournament, where Sri Lanka scored 158/5 in their 20 overs.
Dilshan scored another blistering knock with 96 unbeaten runs.
West Indies scored just 101 all out in their 20 overs.
Sri Lanka easily moved to their first T20 International final.
However, Mahela ended the tournament as highest run scorer with 302 runs.
The first over was bowled by Mohammad Amir .
This brought in Mathews, who along with Sangakkara took the score from 70/6 to 138/6, with 17 runs being scored off the last over bowled by Mohammad Amir.
Sri Lanka finished on 138/6 from 20 overs.
Pakistan started off well with openers Kamran Akmal and Shahzaib Hasan adding 48 run for the 1st wicket, before Kamran Akmal was stumped by Sangakkara by the first delivery of Jayasuriya.
Pakistan reached the target in 18.4 overs, with Shahid Afridi, who hit the winning runs, earning Man of the Match while Tillakaratne Dilshan was declared Man of the Series for his 317 runs at an average of 63.40.
The first match was with New Zealand, where Sri Lanka scored only 135/6 with 81 of Mahela.
In chasing, New Zealand were shaky in the start, but Jesse Ryder recovered the match to their way with 27 ball 42 runs.
He reach hundred with 64 balls.
With this Sri Lanka won the match by 14 in D/L method.
In this match, Mahela came very close to score his second consecutive century but overs ended when he was not out in 98.
Sri Lanka batted first, but couldn't reach even 150 mark.
They scored 128 runs only.
Sri Lankan hopes came fade with this performance, where Kevin Pietersen  attacked Sri Lankan bowling line-up.
India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka jointly hosted the 10th edition of Cricket World Cup .
In group A, Sri Lanka played with Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Canada and Kenya.
They started off their tournament against minnows Canada.
They won the toss and elected to bat first.
Jayawardene reached his century but fell immediately afterwards.
The Canadian chase went nowhere, with Thisara Perera and Nuwan Kulasekara getting three wickets quickly.
Big-hitter Rizwan Cheema took 37, including two huge sixes off spinner Murali, but the latter ultimately got his wicket as Canada fell to 122 all out.
Sri Lanka won the match by 210 runs.
Next match was with Pakistani team, which gave Lankans their first World Cup defeat in home soil.
Pakistan captain Shahid Afridi won the toss and decided to bat first against Sri Lanka, one of the pre-tournament favorites.
This was the turning point of the match, as three more wickets, including that of Dilshan fell soon after to leave Sri Lanka tottering at 96/4.
Silva struggled to time the ball early in his innings, being 16 off 49 balls at one point, but he then accelerated rapidly to reach his half-century, but Afridi returned to remove dangerous looking Angelo Mathews.
Sri Lanka comfortably chased the target of 146b by giving one wicket only.
Sri Lanka against Australia match was abandoned due to heavy rain.
With their victory over Zimbabwe, Sri Lanka became the first team to qualify for the Quarter Finals of the tournament.
Skipper Sangakkara scored 111 runs and Lankans managed to get 265/9.
Blackcaps were struggled from the very first ball, where they were all out for 153.
In the quarter finals, Sri Lankan counterpart was England.
England total of 229 was easily reached by Dilshan and Tharanga.
Sri Lanka qualified easily for the semi-finals.
This was the last match Murali played on Sri Lankan soil.
Zaheer began with three consecutive maidens and the wicket of Tharanga, conceding only six runs in his five-over spell.
Jayawardene came to the crease when Sri Lanka were 60/2 in the 17th over.
Sangakkara and Mahela went about the task of consolidating the innings, but eventually Sangakkara was caught behind by Dhoni at 48.
The Indians decided to review the decision and he was ultimately given out.
Helped by the hard-hitting of Kulasekara and Thisara, Sri Lanka scored 91 runs in the last 10 overs, including 63 in the batting powerplay  to take the score to 274/6.
Kohli and Gautam Gambhir started the recovery with some fluent stroke play and quick running between wickets, taking India to 114 before Kohli was caught-and-bowled by Dilshan for 35.
Kohli and Gambhir put together an 83-run partnership before Kohli's dismissal.
Dhoni came in after Kohli to bat at number five.
Gambhir and Dhoni added 109 for the fourth wicket with Gambhir scoring 97.
Following Gambhir's dismissal, 52 runs were required off 52 balls.
Dhoni finished on 91 not out from 79 deliveries.
This is the first World Twenty20 tournament held in an Asian country, the last three having been held in South Africa, England and the West Indies.
Sri Lanka was lead by Mahela Jayawarderna for the second time after 2007 World Twenty20.
All group matches were held in Hambantota .
The first match of the tournament was between the Hosts and Zimbabwe.
Zimbabwe won the toss and put Sri Lanka onto bat.
Zimbabwe came to the crease, but didn't took too long to dismissed to 100 runs on the board.
This is the best bowling figures in Twenty20 International history, that was previously also held by Mendis against Aussies.
Sri Lanka was not good at all, only scored 46/5, no any batsmen scored more than 15 runs.
However, both team qualified for the Super 8s.
Against New Zealand, the match was tied, where both teams scored 174.
However, Sri Lanka won the Super Over and won the match.
In the next two matches, Sri Lanka won very easily against West Indies and England.
The Sri Lankan third consecutive World T20 semi-final was against Pakistanis.
Sri Lanka scored 139/4, where Mahela paced the innings with his 42 runs.
While chasing, skipper Mohammad Hafeez scored 40 runs, all the other players were undone by Rangana Herath.
The 16 runs victory gave Sri Lankans to win their first T20 title, which was against West Indies.
Ajantha Mendis was the highest wicket-taker with 15 wickets.
As the runner-up of previous World T20 competition, Sri Lanka went Bangladesh under the captaincy of Dinesh Chandimal to this edition of World T20 .
In the group stage at Super 10 stage, they played with South Africa, New Zealand, England, and Netherlands.
In the first match, Sri Lanka played with South Africa.
Sri Lanka won the toss and elected to bat first.
Sri Lankan opener Kusal Perera reminded all sorts of aggressive shots by legendary Sanath Jayasuriya.
South Africans was not down as yet, where they progressively built the innings.
Kusal was the Man-of-the-Match.
The next match was against talented Netherlands, who show their powerful strokes against Ireland in this tournament.
But all those stroke play was undone by magnificent bowling by Mathews, Kulasekara, and Malinga.
Sri Lanka batted first and scored 189/4.
Mahela scored 89 runs.
England scored 190/4 in 19.2 and won the match.
Skipper Chandimal was out of play due to some injuries, so Lasith Malinga captained the match.
By batting first, Sri Lanka scored only 119 all out, Mahela scored 25 runs as the best batsman.
During the match, Anderson was injured and so New Zealand played with only 10 players in batting.
New Zealand started pretty well with Guptill and Kane Williamson .
Herath ball Guptill and he lunges forward to push to mid-on.
After this run-out, it wall all Herath. he stumped skipper McCullum, then caught Ross Taylor to lbw.
Next, Herath bowled James Neesham in first ball he faced.
He then captured Luke Ronchi for lbw, and New Zealand were never in the game.
With this win, Sri Lanka moved their fourth consecutive World T20 semi-finals.
The semi-finals was against defending World T20 champions- West Indies.
Malinga again lead the team.
But this time, Lankans were all over West Indies, where Sri Lanka scored 160/6.
In chasing, West Indies was 80/4 when rain came into play.
Rain and hail ended the match after 13.5 overs in the West Indies' innings.
Their par score was 107 runs according to the Duckworth–Lewis method.
So, Sri Lanka won by 27 runs in D/L method.
This World Cup belongs to them.
The match was lead by Malinga for third time, where he gave permanent T20I captaincy.
Sri Lanka and India had played each other over sixty times in the last seven years, with India winning the majority of the matches.
Despite this, statistically there had been little between the two teams during the tournament.
India, sent into bat by Sri Lanka after they won the toss, posted 130 runs in their 20 overs.
Virat Kohli top scored with 77, but Yuvraj Singh's 11 runs off 21 balls slowed the innings momentum in the final overs.
Kumar Sangakkara, playing his last Twenty20 international match, guided Sri Lanka home with an unbeaten 52 runs.
Sangakkara was named Player of the Match, while Kohli was named Player of the Tournament.
With this match, Mahela and Sanga retired from twenty20 internationals.
The words of Sammy became true at last.
The last edition of Cricket World Cup was hosted by Australia and New Zealand.
Sri Lanka was captained by Angelo Mathews .
Lahiru Thirimanne scored 65 runs, and finally Sri Lanka bowled out for 233, with 98 runs lost at the end.
The next match was against debut World Cup contestants- Afghanistan.
Following this, Afghanistan started losing wickets at regular intervals to the Sri Lankan pace bowlers before finally being bowled out for 232 in 49.4 overs.
Then in the sixth over, they lost the wicket of Sangakkara with the score at 18/3.
They slipped into further trouble when Dimuth Karunaratne was dismissed in the 12th over with the Sri Lankan total still at 51. Then the maestro Jayawardene came to the crease.
Bangladesh only scored 240/10 and Sri Lanka won the match by 92 runs.
Next match was against English, where English captain Eoin Morgan won the toss and elected to bat first.
England openers started solidly, but, from 62/0, the innings was reduced to 101/3 in the 21st over.
Joe Root and Morgan added 60 runs for the 4th wicket before the dismissal of Morgan.
The fifth wicket partnership between Root and James Taylor yielded 98 runs in 11 overs.
England were 265/6 in the 47th over, before Jos Buttler struck an unbeaten 39 in 19 balls to take the total to 309/6 at the end of 50 overs.
Sri Lankan innings began with Thirimanne being dropped on 3. His opening partner Dilshan was out for 44 immediately after their partnership had reached 100 runs.
Sangakkara joined Thirimanne and the left-hand duo punished the England bowlers with each of the batsmen making hundreds.
This was Sangakkara second consecutive century.
Sri Lanka chasing was not good at first, where Thirimanne was got out early.
After dismissal of Dilshan, the middle-order failed to gain partnerships with Sangakkara, who batting really well.
Sangakkara scored his third consecutive century.
With Sanga's wicket, Sri Lanka lost wickets quickly and scored 312/9 in 50 overs.
Australia won the match by 64 runs.
In the last group stage match, Sri Lanka easily defeated Scotland by 148 runs.
Sangakkara scored his fourth consecutive century by scoring 124 runs.
Sri Lanka scored 363/9.
Scotland only scored 215 runs.
In the quarter final, Sri Lanka met South Africans.
South Africa won the match very easily, only one wicket fell.
This match gave Lankans, their first defeat without making for the semi-finals after 1999 World Cup.
Sanath Jayasuriya was the Man of the Series .
Sri Lanka also whitewashed Bangladesh in many occasions.
On 2015-16 season, Sri Lanka whitewashed West Indies 3-0 for the first time.
As of December 2011, the Sri Lankan team has played 209 Test matches, winning 29.66%, losing 35.41% and drawing 34.93% of its games.
Sri Lanka is the only team to have participated in every edition of the Asia Cup .
Sri Lanka is the fourth nation to reach two consecutive World Cup Finals .
Sri Lanka is the first nation to reach three consecutive World Twenty20 Finals .
India recorded their first Test victory, in their 24th match, against England at Madras  in 1952.
However, they did not win again in the remainder of the decade and lost badly to strong Australian and English sides.
They managed to draw home series against Pakistan and Australia, and another series against England.
In this same period, India also won its first series outside the subcontinent, against New Zealand in 1967–68.
This period also saw the emergence of two of India's best ever batsmen, Sunil Gavaskar and Gundappa Viswanath .
Indian pitches have had tendency to support spin and the spin quartet exploited this to create collapses in opposing batting line-ups.
These players were responsible for the back-to-back series wins in 1971 in the West Indies and in England, under the captaincy of Ajit Wadekar .
There were six fifties, the highest being 70 by Mohinder Amarnath .
The innings was the eighth instance in Test cricket where all eleven batsmen reached double figures.
In 1984, India won the Asia Cup and in 1985, won the World Championship of Cricket in Australia.
India's Test series victory in 1986 against England remained the last Test series win by India outside the subcontinent for the next 19 years.
The 1980s saw Gavaskar and Kapil Dev  at the pinnacle of their careers.
Kapil Dev later became the highest wicket-taker in Test cricket with 434 wickets.
The period was also marked by an unstable leadership, with Gavaskar and Kapil exchanging the captaincy several times.
The addition of Sachin Tendulkar and Anil Kumble to the national side in 1989 and 1990 further improved the team.
Despite this, during the 1990s, India did not win any of its 33 Tests outside the subcontinent while it won 17 out of its 30 Tests at home.
Tendulkar resigned, vowing never to captain the team again.
India maintained their unbeaten home record against Australia in Test series after defeating them in 2001.
The Indian cricket team in action in the Wankhede Stadium At the end of the 2004 season, India suffered from lack of form and fitness from its older players.
Greg Chad the feat in his 114th match, which are 17 matches less than Kapil Dev.
one of the most admired cricketers of recent times and will long be remembered as one of the game's most revered players.
Simon Helmot  is an Australian cricket coach, who was formerly the coach of the Melbourne Renegades .
Helmot became an assistant coach under Greg Shipperd at Victoria for the 2008-09 season.
Since 2008-09, Helmot has coached the Victorian Bushrangers in the One Day competition.
In that time they have played in three finals, winning the 2010/11 title.
In the 2011/12 season, Helmot was appointed the inaugural coach of the Melbourne Renegades in the newly formed Big Bash League .
He served from 2011 to 2015, with his best season coming in 2012-13, where the Renegades finished as minor premiers, but were knocked out in the semi-final to the Brisbane Heat .
On 29 January 2015, Helmot parted ways with the Renegades.
That bit of land was in fact located just up the road from Cabbage Tree Swamp, now Gribblehirst Park.
The same thing happened again later in the year.
The name ‘Eden Park’ settled into general usage around 1912, soon after it had been taken over by the Auckland Cricket Association .
The Auckland Rugby Football Union officially made Eden Park its home in 1925.
The Trust still manages the Park.
The area was affectionately known in some circles as the “the pond” because of its propensity to flood after heavy rain.
Major drains were cut during this early period.
The first international cricket match was held, with Auckland hosting Australia .
The first rugby union match was contested between Ponsonby and City .
Later that season, Auckland hosted Canterbury in the ground's inaugural first-class rugby match.
The first international rugby union match was held, with New Zealand hosting South Africa .
The ground hosted its inaugural British and Irish Lions matches as part of the 1930 British Lions tour to New Zealand and Australia .
Matches were held against Auckland and New Zealand sides, both won by the home sides with an attendance of 45,000 at the latter.
Development work commenced on the terraces and embankment.
The ground hosted its first match between New Zealand and Australia as part of the 1931 Australia rugby union tour of New Zealand .
New Zealand hosted England in the first cricket test match.
Walter Hammond set an individual test batting record of 336 not out.
The ground hosted its second international rugby union match between New Zealand and South Africa.
The opening ceremony and athletic events of the 1950 British Empire Games were held at the ground.
New Zealand hosted England in the second test match of their 1954–55 Tour of New Zealand .
New Zealand are dismissed for 26 in their second innings, the lowest score in test cricket history.
The New Zealand Parliament passed the Eden Park Trust Act, enshrining the governance structure of the park until 2009.
The West Stand was completed.
New Zealand won its first cricket test match against the West Indies as part of the 1955-56 West Indies Tour of New Zealand .
The ground hosted its third rugby international between New Zealand and South Africa.
The ground hosted its first trans-national soccer match, with an Auckland XI against FK Austria Wien .
It was demolished in 2009.
The British and Irish Lions returned for the third time in the 1959 British Lions tour to Australia and New Zealand with matches against Auckland and New Zealand.
The visitors win both, their first test match win at the ground.
The ground hosted its first rugby test between New Zealand and France as part of the inaugural French tour of New Zealand and Australia .
The ground hosted its first rugby test match between New Zealand and England as part of the inaugural England tour of New Zealand .
The development of Eastern terraces commenced, with work continuing until 1972.
The ground hosted its first rugby union test between New Zealand and Wales as part of the inaugural Welsh tour of New Zealand .
First class cricket matches commenced on the Number two ground .
New Zealand hosted Australia in the first cricket test match between the two nations as part of the Australian tour of New Zealand .
The infamous “flour bomb” rugby test between New Zealand and South Africa was held as part of the 1981 Springbok Tour .
A light plane dropped flour bombs on the playing surface whilst the match was being played.
The match was notable for Australian batsman Greg Chappell dealing with an on ground streaker with his bat.
An indoor cricket facility and stand were built next to the outer oval.
The inaugural Rugby World Cup was co-hosted by Australia and New Zealand.
The West Stand was completed, with 4,200 seats.
The South West stand, including additional corporate boxes, was completed.
The capacity of the ground was at 47,000.
New Zealand jointly hosted the 1992 Cricket World Cup with Australia.
Pakistan defeated New Zealand by four wickets in the semi-final.
Major work was undertaken to improve the playing surface by sand slitting.
The new Auckland Blues began to play.
The ground hosted Super 12 finals in 1997, 1998 and 2003.
Resource consent for the use of lights permitted night matches.
The ground hosted its first rugby test between New Zealand and Ireland as part of the 2002 Ireland Tour of New Zealand .
The Hall of Legends opened for tours.
Portable cricket pitch technology was introduced.
The playing surface on the main oval was completely overhauled with the introduction of “Motz” turf.
The ground was confirmed by the New Zealand Government as the venue for the final of the 2011 Rugby World Cup, committing significant funding for the necessary redevelopment.
The redeveloped stadium was officially opened by New Zealand Prime Minister John Key on 10 October.
The Auckland Council takes over five of the nine spots on the Eden Park Trust Board, giving ratepayers control over the ground.
This is the largest of any New Zealand sports arena.
There are no standing areas.
Temporary seating in front of the North Stand and the West Stand  is required for the capacity to be reached.
Due to sight-screens and the larger area required for cricket matches, cricket capacity is smaller.
Cranes building the new South Stand in 2009Looking south on the construction of the West Stand at Eden Park The redeveloppell took over from John Wright as the coach of the Indian cricket team following the series, and his methods proved to be controversial during the beginning of his tenure.
In December 2006, India played and won its first ever Twenty20 international in South Africa, becoming the most recent Test team to play Twenty20 cricket.
However, defeats to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka saw India fail to reach the second round.
In April 2009, India secured their first Test series win in New Zealand in 41 years.
They retained the ranking by drawing series against South Africa and Sri Lanka.
In October 2010, India whitewashed Australia 2–0 in the home Test series, giving them back-to-back series wins against them.
Later that year, India managed to draw the Test series in South Africa at 1–1.
India's results in international matches For more details on this topic, see History of the England cricket team to 1939 and History of the England cricket team from 1945 .
In 1846 William Clarke formed the All-England Eleven .
These matches were arguably the most important contest of the English season, if judged by the quality of the players.
The first overseas tour occurred in September 1859 with England touring North America.
This team had six players from the All-England Eleven, six from the United All-England Eleven and was captained by George Parr .
This first Australian tour were mostly against odds of at least 18/11.
The match, starting on 15 March 1877 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground came to be regarded as the inaugural Test match.
The combined Australian XI won this Test match by 45 runs with Charles Bannerman of Australia scoring the first Test century.
Prior to this, England teams for home Tests had been chosen by the club on whose ground the match was to be played.
The start of the 20th century saw mixed results for England as they lost four of the eight Ashes series between 1900 and 1914.
England would go on one more tour against South Africa before the outbreak of World War I. .England's first match after the war was in the 1920–21 season against Australia.
Six Australians scored hundreds while Mailey spun out 36 English batsmen.
Things were no better in the next few Ashes series losing the 1921 Ashes series 3–0 and the 1924–5 Ashes 4–1.
On the same year the West Indies became the fourth nation to be granted Test status and played their first game against England.
In the 1929–30 season England went on two concurrent tours with one team going to New Zealand  and the other to the West Indies.
Despite sending two separate teams England won both tours beating New Zealand 1–0 and the West Indies 2–1.
Note the number of leg-side fielders.
He scored 254 at Lord's, 334 at Headingley and 232 at the Oval.
Australia regained the Ashes winning the series 3–1.
Fast leg theory involved bowling fast balls directly at the batsman's body.
English cricket team at the Test match held at the Brisbane Exhibition Ground .
Using his fast leg theory England won the next Ashes series 4–1.
Causing intensely bitter feeling between players as well as injury.
In our opinion is unsportsmanlike.
Unless stopped at once likely to upset friendly relations existing between Australia and England.
Later, Jardine was removed from the captaincy and the laws of cricket changed so that no more than one fast ball aimed at the body was permitted per over, and having more than two fielders behind square leg were banned.
England's following tour of India in the 1933–34 season was the first Test match to be staged in the subcontinent.
The series was also notable for Morris Nichols and Nobby Clark bowling so many bouncers that the Indian batsman wore solar topees instead of caps to protect themselves.
Australia won the 1934 Ashes series 2–1 and would keep the urn for the following 19 years.
England lead 1–0 going into the final timeless match at Durban.
A record 1,981 runs were scored, and the concept of timeless Tests was abandoned.
These loses were tempered by victories against India and South Africa.
Their fortunes would change in the 1953 Ashes tour as they won the series 1–0.
The 1956 series was remembered for the bowling of Jim Laker who took 46 wickets at 9.62 which included bowling figures of 19/90 at Old Trafford .
After drawing to South Africa, England defeated the West Indies and New Zealand comfortably.
The early and middle 1960s were poor periods for English cricket.
Despite England's strength on paper, Australia held the Ashes and the West Indies dominated England in the early part of the decade.
During this period they beat New Zealand, India, the West Indies, Pakistan and, under Ray Illingworth 's determined leadership, regained The Ashes from Australia in 1970–71.
The 1970s, for the England team, can be largely split into three parts.
The early 70s saw Ray Illingworth 's side dominate world cricket winning the Ashes away in 1971 and then retaining them at home in 1972.
The same side beat Pakistan at home in 1971 and played by far the better cricket against India that season.
However, England were largely helped by the rain to sneak the Pakistan series 1–0 but the same rain saved India twice and one England collapse saw them lose to India.
This was, however, one of  strongest England team ever with Boycott, Edrich, D'Oliveira, Amiss, Illingworth, Knott, Snow, Underwood amongst its core.
The mid-1970s were more turbulent.
Mike Denness was the surprising choice but only lasted 18 months; his results against poor opposition were good but England were badly exposed as ageing and lacking in good fast bowling against the 1974–75 Australians, losing that series 4–1 to lose the Ashes.
Denness was replaced in 1975 by Tony Greig .
While he managed to avoid losing to Australia, his side were largely thrashed the following year by the young and very much upcoming West Indies for whom Greig's infamous "grovel" remark acted as motivation.
Greig's finest hour was probably the 1976–77 win over India in India.
When Greig was discovered as being instrumental in World Series Cricket, he was sacked, and replaced by Mike Brearley .
Brearley's side showed again the hyperbole that is often spoken when one side dominates in cricket.
In this time, undoubted highlights were the Ashes victories of 1981 "Botham's Ashes", 1985 and 1986–87.
The 1985 and 1986–87 victories, while sweet for the team, exposed more Australia's weakness than England's strength.
Even in 2011, one or two successful county players have been shown up as physically unfit for international cricket.
So bad was England's bowling in 1993 that Rodney Marsh described England's pace attack at one point as "pie throwers".
Having lost three of the first four Tests played in England in 1993 Graham Gooch resigned to be replaced by Mike Atherton .
Scotland sever ties with the England and Wales team, and begin to compete independently as the Scotland national cricket team .
By 1999, with coach David Lloyd resigning after the World Cup exit and new captain Nasser Hussain just appointed, England hit rock bottom  after losing in shambolic fashion to New Zealand 2–1.
England's results in Asia improved markedly that winter with series wins against both Pakistan and Sri Lanka though one-day success still eluded them.
England's fortunes improved under the new management – not without the occasional "blip" particularly against Australia but home Test wins became commonplace.
Michael Vaughan took over and, while keeping the emphasis as Hussain on fitness and control, encouraged players to express themselves.
A 2–0 defeat in Pakistan was followed by two drawn away series with India and Sri Lanka .
Meanwhile, England's injury problems allowed previously marginal Test players such as Paul Collingwood and Ian Bell to consolidate their places in the team.
In the event, England, captained by Flintoff who was deputising for the injured Vaughan, lost all five Tests to concede the first Ashes whitewash in 86 years.
Even so, the unimpressive nature of most of their victories in the tournament, combined with heavy defeats by New Zealand, Australia and South Africa, left many commentators criticising the manner in which the England team approached the one-day game.
The number of covered seats increased from 23,000 to 38,000.
The redeveloped Eden Park has an internal concourse that allows people to circulate around the grounds inside the stadium, and world-class facilities, including food and beverage outlets, toilets and corporate areas, were incorporated.
There were public concerns about the height of the new structure and its shading effect on many nearby houses.
Auckland City Council received 470 submissions on the resource consent application, over 300 of which were in favour of the redevelopment.
On 26 January 2007, Eden Park received resource consent with 91 conditions imposed.
The consent permitted the building of new stands in place of the terraces and south stand, but did not include consent for the NZ$385 million 'full option', which would have included covered seating.
The ground regularly hosts All Blacks tests.
Auckland Rugby first used the ground in the 1913 season and the first international fixture was against South Africa in 1921.
The final game of the 1981 Springbok Tour was played at Eden Park.
A low-flying Cessna 172 piloted by Marx Jones and Grant Cole dropped flour bombs on the field as part of widespread protests against the tour and apartheid.
See also: List of international cricket centuries at Eden Park Eden Park is the home ground for the Auckland cricket team .
The ground was also the host to New Zealand 's first Test victory, against West Indies in 1955-56 season.
It is scheduled to host test cricket in March 2017.
The ground hosted four matches during the 1992 Cricket World Cup including the semi-final between New Zealand and Pakistan .
Awana made his first-class debut for Delhi against Himachal Pradesh in 2007.
He played five games that season and picked up 12 wickets.
He was dropped from the team during the 2010/11 Ranji Trophy as he failed to get enough wickets.
His good bowling was rewarded as he was selected to play for North Zone in the 2011/12 Deodhar Trophy .
He was picked in the national squad for the fourth Test against England and made his Twenty20 International debut against the touring English side in December 2012.
Season by season performance in first-class cricket Saha made it through the ranks of the youth system, playing for the Under-19s and the Under-22s team before stepping up to first-class cricket .
Saha made his one-day debut in the Ranji Trophy competition of 2006/07, against Assam .
As he was nearing the end of his brief run in the Ranji Trophy, he played three one-day games for the East Zone in the Deodhar Trophy .
Saha also made the East Zone team in the Duleep Trophy in the 2007-08 season.
In both innings, fast bowler Dale Steyn took his wicket.
India lost the Test and Saha was dropped from the squad for the second Test which India subsequently won to level the two-match series.
Saha played in the fourth match of the Border Gavaskar Trophy in January 2012 in place of MS Dhoni ,who was banned for slow over rate, where he made an important 35 in the first which help Virat Kohli to get his maiden Test Century.
It is usually recommended to deliver the ball with some inswing but an away-swinging yorker aimed at the pads can be just as effective.
Because yorkers are quite difficult to bowl they require substantial practice to achieve consistent success.
Against the same country he had made history by becoming the first-ever Protea to play in 100 Test matches.
He could up the tempo of an innings if he needed to, but more often than not he simply waited for the bad ball, much like Steve Waugh and Justin Langer .
This record stood until it was surpassed by Chris Gayle who scored 215 against Zimbabwe in 2015.
Later, that record was surpassed by Martin Guptill who scored 237* against the West Indies in the quarter finals of that very World Cup.
However, he travelled to Australia with India beforehand during the test series.
His first full series in charge was against his home country, South Africa in March–April 2008 which was drawn 1–1.
Also, he coached India to the finals of the Kitply Cup and 2008 Asia Cup .
India also won the Compaq Cup, defeating Sri Lanka in the finals on 14 September 2009 by 46 runs.
Gary Kirsten has been praised by all players for improving/enhancing their playing techniques, motivating them and discussing tactics that can be deployed on the field.
The results could be clearly seen within months.
He is considered the key force behind the clearly visible performance improvement in all players.
Kirsten often stated that he wanted to spend time with his two growing sons, Joshua and James, and wife and said three years away from home was long enough.
Immediately after the announcement Kirsten was linked with joining South Africa as their coach as the South Africa coach Corrie van Zyl also announced his contract would end after the World Cup as well.
His first decision was to name AB De Villiers as the new captain for the limited overs game, replacing Graeme Smith who remains as the Test side captain.
He did not renew his contract with Cricket South Africa  and has step down as the coach of the national team in August 2013 citing family commitments.
The first over was bowled by Mohammad Aamer .
He also play in fourth match of the series and made 35 runs.
Saha however fails with the bat but he take the most catches by any player in the series.
In the tournament Saha not only took some good catches but also contributed with the bat.
Prior to beating India, they won 1-0 against Sri Lanka at home.
They were clearly the most consistent side in the world over the past few years."The
Oval Test which will end on August 22.
Domestic and first-class career Ishant plays for Delhi in domestic cricket and has taken 68 wickets in 14  first-class games, Ishant toured England with the India Under-19s in 2006 and Pakistan in 2006–07.
He played three youth tests and six youth One Day Internationals for India.
This was the highest amount paid for any bowler in tournament.
Later on, he was called for the tour of England in July–August 2007.
Sharma was left out in the Boxing Day Test at Melbourne during the Border–Gavaskar Trophy as India retained their main fast bowlers, Zaheer Khan and RP Singh.
He bowled reasonably in the match, however without much luck.
Although he had little success, the management retained him for the third Test match at Perth.
On the fourth day of the match he bowled an exceptional spell to Australian captain Ricky Ponting that resulted in his wicket and helped India claim victory.
He ended the match with figures of 4/38 and named Man of the Match.
He was noted for achieving reverse swing on balls sometimes as young as eight overs, and along with senior opening bowler Zaheer Khan, troubled the touring Australians.
However, in 2009, Ishant's form slumped, and he was dropped for the second Test against Sri Lanka, replaced by Sreesanth .
Ishant provided Laxman with support during an 81-run partnership in which he contributed 31 valuable runs.
Pakistan started off well with openers Kamran Akmal and Shahzaib Hasan adding 48 run for the 1st wicket, before Kamran Akmal was stumped by Kumar Sangakkara by the first delivery of Sanath Jayasuriya .
Tillakaratne Dilshan was declared Man of the Series for his 317 runs at an average of 63.40.
Pakistan's win, often cheered on by crowds of fans from England's Pakistani communities, marked its first world title since Imran Khan 's "cornered tigers" had won the 1992 World Cup.
He later became coach of the national side for two years but he was replaced in 2004 by Ray Jennings .
He was the Indian Cricket Team's Bowling Consultant from 10 January 2010 to 14 February 2012 after India's tour of Australia in 2011-2012.
Williamson attended Tauranga Boys' College from 2004–2008 where he was Head Boy in his final year and was coached by Josh Syms.
On 24 March 2010 Williamson was named in the New Zealand Test squad for the second Test against Australia, Williamson made his One-Day International debut against India on 10 August 2010.
Williamson scored test match score of 161 against West Indies in June 2014.
He also scored over 700 runs before the 2015 Cricket World Cup in just the first two months of the calendar year.
On 17 June 2015 he became the fifth-fastest batsmen and fastest New Zealander to score 3,000 runs, getting them in just 78 innings.
Williamson's childhood hero was Sachin Tendulkar .
Considering his age at the time, Henriques performed admirably, taking 11 wickets at 19.27 and scoring 95 runs at 19.00.
Henriques was named captain of the Australian U-19 team for the 2006 U-19 Cricket World Cshown under "Related Changes".
There is an external tool to watch additions and removals from categories.
CategoryWatchlistBot is another external tool to watch category membership changes.
Special:Categories provides an alphabetic list of all categories, with the number of members of each; this number does not include the content of the subcategories, but it includes the subcategories themselves, i.e., each counting as one.
Dapete's category-visualizer vCat will render charts of the tree structure.
If there are more members then the results will include text near the end like this:This can be added to the previous one, without quotation marks, for the next page of members:Sunrisers Hyderabad replaced the Deccan Chargers in 2013.
The team played all their home games at home in Hyderabad .
Cheering the Sunrisers Hyderabad Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium .
Adelaide Oval from the Cathedral Spire in 1902.
Australia vs England during the third test in 1902.
Major Taylor wins the Walne Stakes cycling race at Adelaide Oval in 1903.
Chappell stands packed during the Ashes, December 2006 .
Among those responsible for the original construction were John Pickering  and Henry Sparks .
South Australia was victorious, winning by an innings and 13 runs.
John was the father of the great Clem Hill .
Norwood won the game 7.4 .
The picket fence was put up surrounding the Oval  in 1900.
The clock was added in 1912 and the windvane in the 1930s.
The Port Adelaide Football Club defeated the Carlton Football Club for their fourth Championship of Australia title defeating the Victorian side by 34 points, 9.16 .
In 1931–32 Donald Bradman scored the highest score ever at the ground in Test Cricket, compiling 299* against South Africa .
In 1932–33, the Bodyline affair reached its lowest point at the ground when Bill Woodfull and Bert Oldfield were struck, and on the third day mounted police patrolled to keep the 50,962 spectators in order .
The total attendance for the match was 174,351.
In 1958 Blackburn Football Club beat Australia 1-0 during the first Association football match on the ground.
West Indies bowler Lance Gibbs took the only ever Test cricket hat trick at the ground in Australia's first innings.
It was the first large scale outdoor concert he had ever played.
South Australia compiled the highest fourth innings winning total in Sheffield Shield history, reaching 6/506  against Queensland in 1991–92.
It was the narrowest victory ever in Test cricket.
The first towers erected were designed to retract into the ground; however one collapsed and they were replaced with permanent towers.
The Sri Lankan team almost abandoned the match, but after instructions from the president of the Sri Lankan cricket board  the game resumed.
In 2003, two matches of the Rugby World Cup were played at Adelaide Oval, with Australia thrashing Namibia 142–0, and Ireland defeating Argentina by one point.
During the 2006/2007 Ashes series, many temporary stands were erected to cope with the demand for tickets.
Stands were put between the Chappell stands and on the top of the hills.
The three original western stands were demolished in 2009 .
In July and August the team played four Tests in England .
India won the series 2–1.
Ishant Sharma plays for Sunrisers Hyderabad in Indian Premier League.
In 1854 the Garrison Club defeated the Royal Victoria Club in the first recorded cricket match to be played at what was then the Garrison Ground.
Cricket was first played in Australia in Sydney's Hyde Park in 1803.
The Domain was first used for inter-colonial games and then the Albert Ground in Redfern but in time both became unavailable, the Domain because of its poor condition and because it could not be fenced in and the Albert Ground because it closed in the late 1870s.
After the closure of the Albert Ground the New South Wales Cricket Association began using the Association Ground.
The first major game played there was the final of the Civil Service Challenge Cup on 25 October 1877, between the New South Wales Government Printing Office and the Audit Office.
Lord Harris believed the invasion of the ground by about 2000 spectators was actually started by bookmakers in the stand.
Don Bradman made his first visit to the ground in the 1920–21 season to watch the Fifth Test of the Australia and England series.
This record was surpassed by Hanif Mohammad who scored 499 run out.
It was further bettered by the West Indian Brian Lara who scored 501 in 1994.
With changes to the ground seating the record is unlikely to be beaten.
Cans were thrown onto the field and England captain Ray Illingworth took his team from the ground.
Although cricket was not seen as an appropriate game for women, women's cricket associations were formed in Victoria in 1905 and other states in the 1920s and 1930s.
A crowd of 50,000 packed the ground.
Due to the ground's historical significance to rugby league, it is often used for special heritage matches for National Rugby League club and representative matches.
The Australians sealed the series, scoring five tries to win 21–8 and secure the Ashes series for the first time at home.
The English side boasted one of the great rugby league back lines consisting of captain Jim Sullivan  and the series.
The attendance of the first test stood as the highest recorded crowd for an international rugby league match until 73,631 fans attended the 1992 World Cup Final between Australia and Great Britain at the famous Wembley Stadium in London, England.
The next tour by England was in 1946, knows as The "Indomitables" tour.
England went on to win The Ashes.
Forty tonnes of soil were brought in and spread over the surface to try and dry it out.
Tied 2–2 at half time, Australia scored the only try of the match late in the second half when winger Ron Roberts crossed in the corner to seal the win.
At the end of the game the crowd of over 47,000 jumped the fence and invaded the field and congregated in front of the Members Stand cheering and calling for Aussie captain Clive Churchill .
The 1963 rugby league Grand Final was won by the St. George Dragons 8–3 in front of 69,860 fans in atrocious conditions.
It was the Dragons eighth consecutive premiership and their third consecutive Grand Final win against the Western Suburbs Magpies .
That try became the centre of furore when rumors spread that match referee Darcy Lawler had bet on St. George to win .
After the match, photographer John O'Gready took the iconic rugby league photograph, "The Gladiators", depicting Arthur Summons supporting St. George captain Norm Provan .
The photo of Summons and Provan was later used as the basis for the Winfield Cup trophy, and continues to be used to this day with the National Rugby League 's Telstra Premiership Trophy.
Gates were ordered to be closed two hours before the game began and children were allowed to sit inside the fence.
Estimates from people there that day put the crowd as high as 90,000.
It was not until well after the game that he went to hospital.
The Australian side to tour Britain was selected that night and, but for his injury, Sattler would have been picked as captain.
When he returned he created mayhem with strong-arm tactics, although he was clearly out of sorts football wise and was replaced after just 25 minutes by John Bucknell.
The game was described by Sunday Telegraph writer Ian Heads as "A Grand Final as tough and dirty as any bar-room brawl".
However, the game was famous for reasons other than the scoreline.
Leading by only 5–0 at half-time, the Roosters scored an avalanche of tries after the interval to humiliate the Dragons.
It was the Eastern Suburbs Roosters' eleventh premiership victory and their second in succession.
Financial pressures at the Newtown club would result in the Jets competing in the New South Wales Rugby League first grade competition for only two seasons following their 1981 grand final appearance.
Manly Five-eighth Cliff Lyons won the Clive Churchill Medal as the man of the match.
The ground lost the Grand Final and numerous games to the Sydney Football Stadium  in 1988 .
Even so, the ground continues to host occasional National Rugby League matches.
All colonies of Australia were well established when the final versions of the rules of the game were codified by the Marylebone Cricket Club in 1875 and by the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club in 1877 when it held its first tournament at Wimbledon .
In 1898, Sydney cycle firm, Gavin Gibson Ltd, imported seven motorised tricycles produced by Count Jules-Albert de Dion and powered by one cylinder petrol engines designed by his partner Georges Bouton .
Perhaps because of this the Federal Government provided no money and only £10,000 came from the State Government to cover the organising committee's administrative costs.
Club rugby was first played at the then Civil and Military Ground as early as 1870, and the first inter-colonial game was played there in 1882.
Marred by anti- apartheid protests, field invasions and objects being thrown onto the ground and halted several times to removed golf balls and protestors it was won by South Africa who went through the tour undefeated.
One of the worst incidents to occur there was the sad demise of Ken Catchpole's international career.
Australia, although well beaten on this occasion, was well served by international-standard halfbacks and 20-year-old John Hipwell ran on for his first test as Catchpole was carried off.
Dramatic though that game was, no test could have been as important in the development of Australian Rugby Union than the game against the touring Welsh team in 1978.
Finnane and other senior members of the team had vowed to avenge the defeat of the Australians by the Welsh on their last tour of the UK several years before.
Price had bored in on Finnane, his opposite number in the front row and Finnane reacted.
Wales lost the test and the two-test series.
The following year the Australians showed it was no fluke by beating New Zealand two tests to one in Australia to successfully defend the trophy for the first time.
The old Sydney Showground is in the background.
Melbourne won and both teams had to return home by boat down the coast; two other matches  were also played there in 1903.
In the subsequent decades, the ground was rarely used for Australian Rules, except for the occasional exhibition match or interstate football carnival.
India recorded their first Test victory, in their 24th match, against England at Madras  in 1952.
However, they did not win again in the remainder of the decade and lost badly to strong Australian and English sides.
They managed to draw home series against Pakistan and Australia, and another series against England.
In this same period, India also won its first series outside the subcontinent, against New Zealand in 1967–68.
This period also saw the emergence of two of India's best ever batsmen, Sunil Gavaskar and Gundappa Viswanath .
Indian pitches have had tendency to support spin and the spin quartet exploited this to create collapses in opposing batting line-ups.
These players were responsible for the back-to-back series wins in 1971 in the West Indies and in England, under the captaincy of Ajit Wadekar .
There were six fifties, the highest being 70 by Mohinder Amarnath .
The innings was the eighth instance in Test cricket where all eleven batsmen reached double figures.
In 1984, India won the Asia Cup and in 1985, won the World Championship of Cricket in Australia.
India's Test series victory in 1986 against England remained the last Test series win by India outside the subcontinent for the next 19 years.
The 1980s saw Gavaskar and Kapil Dev  at the pinnacle of their careers.
Kapil Dev later became the highest wicket-taker in Test cricket with 434 wickets.
The period was also marked by an unstable leadership, with Gavaskar and Kapil exchanging the captaincy several times.
The addition of Sachin Tendulkar and Anil Kumble to the national side in 1989 and 1990 further improved the team.
Despite this, during the 1990s, India did not win any of its 33 Tests outside the subcontinent while it won 17 out of its 30 Tests at home.
Tendulkar resigned, vowing never to captain the team again.
India maintained their unbeaten home record against Australia in Test series after defeating them in 2001.
The Indian cricket team in action in the Wankhede Stadium At the end of the 2004 season, India suffered from lack of form and fitness from its older players.
Greg Chappell took over from John Wright as the coach of the Indian cricket team following the series, and his methods proved to be controversial during the beginning of his tenure.
The Adelaide Oval hosted the first ever day/night Test match, when Australia play New Zealand on 27 November 2015.
The Hill was created in 1898 with earth from the banks of the River Torrens .
The scoreboard was first used in 1911 and still shows its original Edwardian architecture.
The scoreboard is listed on the City of Adelaide Heritage Register, helping to maintain the charm of the ground.
The George Giffen stand on the western side of the oval prior to redevelopment.
Looking NE from the new Western Stand in December 2010 during The Ashes New western stand being used for the 2013 Ashes.
View of the Oval in 2006, prior to the stadium's redevelopment In August 2008 the South Australian Cricket Association  announced that it had approved plans to redevelop the ground, involving expanding its capacity to 40,000.
However, in early-mid-2010, prior to the election, it became clear that $450m would be inadequate.
Adelaide Oval being redeveloped, resulting in the upgrade and stadium reconfiguration being approved.
The Northern Mound, the Moreton Bay fig trees and the Scoreboard are all heritage listed and will likely never be demolished unless damaged beyond repair.
During his time in the Australian U-19 team, he played 17 matches, taking 35 wickets at 15.08 and scored 377 runs at an average of 31.41.
Six days later, Henriques made his Twenty20 debut, but did not bat or bowl in that match.
He made his first-class debut against South Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground on 17 October 2006.
He was signed by the Kolkata Knight Riders franchise for $300,000 to play in the Indian Premier League during the 2009 season .
In 2010, he was traded to the Delhi Daredevils in exchange for Manoj Tiwary .
In 2012 he played part of the English season for Glamorgan.
In September 2012 he scored his first first-class century, 161 not out off 229 balls against Tasmania at Bankstown.
He is injured but will return towards the end of November.
Ambulances and medical staff treated the players on-field before taking them both to hospital.
The game was abandoned due to the injures.
In 2013, Henriques was selected in Australia's Test cricket team during the tour of India making his test debut and then scored his maiden half- century with 68 runs in the 1st innings of the 1st test backing it up with 81 not out in the 2nd innings.
A genuine all-rounder, Henriques states that he "couldn't choose" between batting and bowling as his preferred art.
October 2012Sreesanth was born on February 6, 1983 to Santhakumaran Nair and Savithri Devi.
He has one elder brother and two elder sisters.
On 12 December 2013, Sreesanth married his girlfriend Bhuvneshwari Kumari of Jaipur's Shekhawat family at Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple in Kerala .
Bhuvneshwari Kumari aka Nain Shekhawat is the daughter of Hirendra Singh Shekhawat and Muktha Singh.
However, his habit of bowling yorkers led him to convert to fast bowling, after being encouraged by his elder brother.
He also missed five Ranji Trophy games in that season, although he still travelled with the side for away games.
He made an unexpected come back to the blue squad due to the injury to Ajit Agarkar later in the tournament.
Sreesanth was selected for his first Test squad in the home series against England in March 2006, in place of Zaheer Khan .
Sreesanth playing for India against Somerset in 2011.
Sreesanth's most significant performance to date in Test cricket was his role in the first Test of India's 2006 tour to South Africa at Johannesburg .
This performance helped to bowl South Africans out for just 84, leading to first Indian win on South African soil, for which he was named man of the match.
Again, Sreesanth's emotional antics, which have led him to be regarded by some commentators as eccentric, were frequently noted.
He was fined half of his match fee for deliberately shoulder barging England captain Michael Vaughan whilst walking back to his mark.
Sreesanth however did immediately apologise afterwards.
After the match he said that the ball had slipped from his hand.
Former England captain Michael Atherton called for Sreesanth to be banned for the Pietersen beamer, saying that Sreesanth could not control his on-pitch emotions.
Sreesanth played the second Test in Kanpur and picked up five wickets in the first innings, which helped India win the match by an innings and 144 runs.
In September 2007, Sreesanth joined the Indian team in South Africa for the inaugural Twenty20 World Cup following his omission for the one-day series in England.
Although his performance in the tournament lacked consistency, Sreesanth managed breakthroughs at critical junctures that were vital to his team's success.
During the semifinal match against Australia which India won, Sreesanth got the vital wickets of the Australian openers Adam Gilchrist and Matthew Hayden .
The latter proved to be decisive in turning the match round in India's favour.
In the final against Pakistan, Sreesanth proved expensive with the ball, but became the centre of Indian celebrations as he held on to the catch in the last over that ended Pakistan's innings and made India World Twenty20 champions.
Sreesanth is currently associated with the Rajasthan Royals in the Indian Premier League .
He left Kings XI Punjab after the 2010 Indian Premier League and signed for Kochi for the 2011 competition .He signed for Rajasthan royals for the 2012 competition .
But he didn't play in 2012 due to injuries.
The incident came to light as Sreesanth was caught by TV cameras sobbing inconsolably on the field before the presentation ceremony.
Sreesanth later downplayed the incident saying he had no complaints against Harbhajan who was "like an elder brother" to him.
Harbhajan's team had lost their third consecutive match when he apparently reacted violently to Sreesanth's approaching him and saying "hard luck".
However, Sreesanth has always maintained that he is innocent and that he was forced to sign confession statements.
Police reported that Sreesanth was drunk at the time of his arrest and thought he was being arrested for being drunk.
Sreesanth, and the two other players accused of spot fixing had their Rajasthan Royals contracts suspended while their inquiries were pending.
Moores was replaced as coach by Zimbabwean Andy Flower .
The second Twenty20 World Cup was held in England in 2009 but England suffered an opening day defeat to the Netherlands.
They recovered to defeat both eventual champions Pakistan and reigning champions India but were then knocked out by West Indies.
A victory for each team followed before the series was decided at The Oval .
The following winter, they thrashed Australia 3–1 to retain the Ashes; it was their first series win in Australia for 24 years, and included three innings victories and 766 runs by opener Alastair Cook .
Despite beating South Africa and tying with eventual winners India, England suffered shock losses to Ireland and Bangladesh before losing in the quarter-finals to Sri Lanka.
It was their first home series loss since 2008, against the same opposition.
This loss saw the resignation of Strauss as captain .
In doing so, Cook became the first ever captain to score centuries in his first five Tests as captain and became England's leading century-maker with 23 hundreds.
A 3–0 home win secured England the urn for the fourth time in five series.
Following the tour, head coach Andy Flower resigned his post whilst batsman Kevin Pietersen was dropped indefinitely from the England team.
The West Indies have won four major tournament titles: the World Cup twice, the Champions Trophy once, and most recently the World Twenty20 once.
The last was under the captaincy of Darren Sammy in October 2012.
The history of the West Indies cricket team began in the 1890s, when the first representative sides were selected to play visiting English sides.
The last series the West Indies played before the outbreak of the Second World War was against England in 1939.
In their early days in the 1930s, the side represented the British colonies that would later form the West Indies Federation plus British Guiana .
Flag and anthem Former flag of the West Indies cricket team used until 1999.
This flag became public domain .
The current version is similar to this but the new one is copyrighted .
Most cricketing nations use their own national flags for cricketing purposes.
He was also sent to Australian Institute of Sport for bio-mechanical analysis on his bowling action, to improve its efficiency.
Patel recorded the figures of 7/97 on debut, including 4/25 in the second innings and demonstrated an ability to swing the ball in both directions.
He was part of the Indian 2007 World Cup squad which failed to progress from the group stage and played during India's One-day International series against Bangladesh shortly after the tournament before playing two games in England in August 2007.
He took four wickets before being ruled out of the remainder of the series through injury.
He was subsequently left out of the squad to play Pakistan in November although was recalled to the Test squad following injuries to R. P. Singh and S. Sreesanth .
He was selected for the 2009 tour to Sri Lanka and played in the opening match.
He bowled five wicketless overs for 32 runs.
The site was created in 2009 by Jain in association with his fellow sports fanatic Anshu Prasad.
The company is owned and maintained by Absolute Sports Private Limited, Sportskeeda is backed by venture capital funding.
The revenue patterns of Sportskeeda have not been disclosed to the public yet.
Porush Jain has been the Chief Executive Officer of Sportskeeda since its inception.
In September 2014, the company hired Shard Sharma, who had been previously associated with Rediff and Zee Network, as its Vice-President of Sales and Marketing.
An article can be contributed by any user who registers on the site.
The site claims to publish around 100 articles every day, Noted Indian football journalist Novy Kapadia writes for Sportskeeda,  have also been among the contributors in the past.
The app requires Android 4.03 version or higher.
Physics of swing bowling The Philadelphians' Bart King helped to perfect swing bowling in the early 20th century The essence of swing bowling is to get the cricket ball to deviate sideways as it moves through the air towards or away from the batsman .
In order to do this, the bowler makes use of five factors:The raised seam of the cricket ball The wear and tear on the ball The polishing liquid used on the ball The speed of the delivery The asymmetry of the ball is encouraged by the constant polishing of one side of the ball by members of the fielding team, while allowing the opposite side to deteriorate through wear and tear.
Both turbulent and laminar airflow contribute to swing.
Air in laminar flow separates from the surface of the ball earlier than air in turbulent flow, so that the separation point moves toward the front of the ball on the laminar side.
The calculated net lift force is not enough to account for the amount of swing observed.
Additional force is provided by the pressure-gradient force .
To induce the pressure-gradient force the bowler must create regions of high and low static pressure on opposing sides of the ball.
The ball is then "sucked" from the region of high static pressure towards the region of low static pressure.
The Magnus effect utilises the same force but by manipulating spin across the direction of motion.
When the ball is older and there is an asymmetry in roughness the seam no longer causes the pressure difference, and can actually reduce the swing of the ball.
Air turbulence is no longer used to create separation point differences and therefore the lift and pressure differences.
On the rough side of the ball there are scratches and pits in the ball's surface.
This lowers the static pressure relative to the shiny side, which swings the ball.
If the scratches and tears completely cover the rough side of the ball, the separation point on the rough side will move to the back of the ball, further than that of the turbulent air, thereby creating more lift and faster air flow.
If the seam is used to create the turbulent air on the rough side, the tears will not fill as quickly as they would with laminar flow, dampening the lift and pressure differences.
Reverse swing occurs in exactly the same manner as conventional swing, despite popular misconception.
When polishing the shiny side of the ball, numerous liquids are used, such as sweat, saliva, sunscreen, hair gel  and creates raised bumps on the polished side, due to the non-uniform nature of the expansion.
The valleys between the bumps hold the air in the same manner as the tears on the rough side.
The greater air coverage is now on the shiny side, giving rise to more lift and faster secondary airflow on that side.
There is therefore lower static pressure on the shiny side, causing the ball to swing towards it, not away from it as in conventional swing.
Due to the less static nature of the initial air layer it takes longer for the swing to occur, which is why it occurs later in the delivery.
This is why conventional and reverse swing can occur in the same delivery.
Cold and humid weather tend to enhance swing, due to the lift force increasing with the density of the air.
Colder air is more dense than warm air.
Typically, bowlers more commonly bowl outswingers, as they tend to move away from the batsman, meaning he has to "chase" the ball in order to hit it.
Also, if the batsman misjudges the amount of swing, he can hit the ball with an edge of the bat.
An inswinger presents relatively fewer dangers to the batsman, but on some particular days can be devastating due to risk of being bowled or leg before wicket .
Normal swing occurs mostly when the ball is fairly new.
When the ball becomes very old—around 40 or more overs old—it begins to swing towards the shine.
Reverse swing tends to be stronger than normal swing, and to occur late in the ball's trajectory.
This can be done in two ways Pioneers and notable practitioners of reverse swing have mostly been Pakistani fast bowlers.
In the early days of reverse swing, Pakistani bowlers were suspected of ball tampering to achieve the conditions of the ball that allow reverse swing.
This can be done by observing the bowler's grip and action  or by means of prior knowledge of the bowler; many can bowl or are proficient in only one type of swing.
Traditional methods include the batsmen playing the ball as late as possible, and not playing away from the body.
Other effective measures for combating swing bowling include standing well outside the crease, thus giving the ball less time to swing; and guessing the direction of swing based on the seam position observed in the ball's flight.
Since reverse swing occurs at faster speeds, later in the trajectory of the ball and with no real obvious change in action and grip (Waqar Younis from Pakistan for example had the same action and grip for nearly all his deliveries Controversy regarding reverse swing has never left modern cricket, as the Pakistani team was accused of ball tampering by the controversial Australian umpire Darrell Hair during the fourth test against England in 2006 when the ball began to reverse swing after the 50th over.
Srikkanth played domestic cricket for Tamil Nadu and South Zone.
He made his One Day International debut against England in Ahmedabad in 1981, followed two days later by his Test debut against England at Bombay at the age of 21.
He opened the innings partnering Sunil Gavaskar .
In the 1983 World Cup final against the West Indies, Srikkanth top scored for India.
He was made the captain of the Indian team in 1989.
He remained the captain of the team for India's tour of Pakistan in 1989 and managed to draw all the four Tests of the series.
But the selectors were disappointed with his batting failures and dropped him.
He returned two years later and played for another year before being dropped again.
He retired from international cricket in 1993.
He achieved this feat against New Zealand at Visakhapatnam in 1988.
Srikkanth was an opening batsman noted for his aggressive attacking strokes in contrast to his first batting partner and senior Sunil Gavaskar .
He was known to take risks even in the early part of the innings, often scoring boundaries over the inner ring of fielders.
On 18 February 2008, Krish Srikkanth was named the ambassador for the Chennai Super Kings franchise of Indian Premier League .
On 27 September 2008, he was appointed the Chief Selector of the Indian Cricket team.
His tenure ended in 2012.
On 20 December 2012, Krish Srikkanth was named the ambassador for the Sunrisers Hyderabad franchise of Indian Premier League .
Srikkanth played 43 Tests for India, scoring 2,062 runs at an average of 29.88.
He often opened both the bowling and batting for Railways with his medium-pace bowling and sound defensive batting technique.
In the 2000–01 season, Railways reached the final of the Ranji Trophy where they lost to Baroda .
The following season, they went one better and defeated Baroda to win the competition.
Bangar's performances had caught the eyes of the selectors and he was called up to the Indian squad for their matches against England in the 2001–02 season.
In only his second Test, he scored 100 not out against Zimbabwe at Nagpur batting at number 7. In the 2002 tour of England, he was promoted to open the innings at Headingley after some poor performances by Wasim Jaffer .
He later became the captain of Railways and led them to an 1988.
He lost the record to Kapil Dev .
Hadlee was the first bowler to reach 400 Test wickets vs India at Christchurch in 1990Corey Anderson holds record for the second fastest century in the history of One Day International cricket or any other format of international cricket.
Corey Anderson lost the record to AB de Villiers when AB scored his century in just 31 balls against West Indies.
Andrew Jones and Martin Crowe held the highest ever 3rd-wicket partnership in Tests which at the time was the highest partnership for any wicket.
Brian Hastings and Richard Collinge together scored 151 runs for the highest ever 10th-wicket partnership against Pakistan in 1973.
Nathan Astle scored Test cricket's fastest ever double century versus England Christchurch 2002.
He scored 200 off 153 balls with the second hundred coming off just 39 deliveries.
He was eventually out for 222—the dreaded double Nelson .
He knocked the first hundred off 114 balls.
Astle smashed the record by 59 balls, previously held by Adam Gilchrist Australia vs South Africa Johannesburg 2002.
Brendon McCullum held another record for the Highest Individual Score in Twenty20 International Cricket, when he scored 123 vs Bangladesh at Pallekele.
He lost the record to Aaron Finch who scored 156* against England at Southampton.
Chris Cairns and his father Lance Cairns are one of the two father-son combinations to each claim 100 Test wickets, South Africa's Peter and Shaun Pollock being the other.
Chris Cairns held the record for the most Test sixes in Tests.
He passed Viv Richards record of 84  and Brian Lara .
Martin Guptill scored the Highest score in World Cups with 237* in 2015 .
His figures were 5/95 and 4/74 with the ball and 55* and 76 with the bat.
New Zealand dismissed Zimbabwe  to be dismissed twice in the same day.
The whole Test was completed inside two days.
Brendon McCullum scored the fastest World Cup fifty  earlier.
The South African cricket team toured England in 1947.
South Africa's first test match after re-admission was against the West Indies in April 1992.
The match was played in Bridgetown, Barbados and South Africa lost by 52 runs.
Since South Africa have been reinstated they have achieved mixed success, and hosted the International Cricket Council Cricket World Cup in 2003.
In 2003, South Africa were one of the favourites but were eliminated by one run in the group stages after they had mistakenly counted the number of runs they needed.
At the age of 29, he became the first non-white man to captain the once all-white South African cricket team.
After Smith's retirement, Hashim Amla was appointed captain of the test side, leading his side to victory in his first test in charge, in Galle in Sri Lanka .
Australia progressed on the basis of its superior run rate through the tournament.
In addition to surrendering commanding positions in the above matches, South Africa suffered upset losses against the West Indies in 1996 and New Zealand in 2011 .
South Africa lost the game marginally as they missed two run outs and two catches.
Nepal needed to win outright to qualify for the main tournament, but the match was drawn after there was no play on the first day.
Mehboob Alam and Binod Das picked up seven wickets and three wickets respectively.
Mehboob Alam set the world record by taking all ten wickets in the match against Mozambique .
In January 2013, Bangar announced his retirement after 20 year seasons.
He worked with the Kochi Tuskers as batting coach in 2010.
He was in race to replace Pravin Amre as head coach of Mumbai cricket team .
Later he was promoted to head coach during the season and coached them to final of season where they lost to Kolkata Knight Raiders .
In August 2014, he was named batting coach of India after embarrassing Test series defeat to England.
In December 1997, Pathan broke into the Baroda Under-16 team,  less than two months after turning 13.
He bowled short spells in the younger division, taking four wickets at 38.00 in six matches, averaging less than seven overs an innings.
At the start of the 2000–01 season, Pathan was immediately back in the Under-19s, this time bowling more, often delivering more than 20 overs per innings.
However, he was unable to repeat this form in the three remaining matches, taking only two more wickets in total, but Baroda nevertheless managed to win the Ranji Trophy .
The Ranji win saw Baroda qualify for the following season's Irani Trophy where they took on the Rest of India.
In the next match, he took 4/72 and 3/85 as West defeated North by 178 runs.
Pathan then went on an India Under-19 tour of England in mid-2002.
Pathan was rewarded with selection in the Rest of India team that played against Railways in the Irani Trophy at the start of the 2002–03 season.
Playing in five first-class matches, Pathan took nine wickets at 43.77, including 4/60 against Yorkshire and 3/83 against South Africa .
At the start of the 2003–04 season, Pathan played in the domestic Challenger Trophy for the first time.
This was more than twice that of the second leading wicket-taker.
He was named as the player of the tournament, which India won after defeating Sri Lanka by eight wickets in the final.
Pathan made his Test debut in December 2003, following an injury to the Baroda left-armer Zaheer Khan Pathan made his Test debut in the Second Test against Australia at the Adelaide Oval in December 2003.
At the age of 19, he opened the bowling following an injury to the Baroda left-armer Zaheer Khan in the First Test.
India won only one of these games and lost four.
Returning to India, Pathan then represented his country at the highest level for the first time on home soil.
This was his first half-century in Tests, and was scored after the specialist batsmen had failed.
Pathan made his name in Tests on the December tour to Bangladesh .
Pathan.
He took only six wickets at 68.33 in the home Test series against Pakistan after losing pace and accuracy.
Upon the team's return to India, Chappell experimented with Pathan by using him as an opening batsman in the Challenger Trophy prior to the late 2005 series against Sri Lankan cricket team .
This yielded only moderate success with scores of 28 and 11 not out.
Pathan took six wickets at 29.16 at an economy rate of 5.17.
He also took seven wickets at an average of 26.00 runs in the series, which India won 2–0.
Pathan had another difficult start to the new year in 2006 on the Test tour to Pakistan.
Having taken an unassailable 3–1 lead, India rested Pathan for the final match.
Pathan only played once in the Second Test, after Sreesanth was sidelined due to injury.
India then selected two spinners in the last two Tests, and Pathan could not gain one of the two pace positions.
Chappell stated that Pathan was fatigued and had been overworked but was confident that Pathan "would recover from his slump and rise to further heights", asserting that he was still young and learning.
He takes wickets early, contributes with the bat, is good in the field."
Pathan's fortunes improved in the next two matches, totalling 5/92 and 7/96 against Tamil Nadu and Mumbai respectively.
He played in all 12 matches, seven against Australia and five against Pakistan.
Pathan scored 131 runs at 18.71 in the lower-order and took 12 wickets at 46.00 at an economy rate of 5.02, averaging substantially worse than his overall career statistics.
With India opting to field two spinners and two pacemen on turning tracks in the home Test series against Pakistan in late 2007, Pathan missed the first two Tests as Zaheer and Rudra Pratap Singh were the fast bowlers chosen.
In the meantime, he took 11 wickets at 23.81 and scored 90 runs at 30.00 in two Ranji Trophy matches.
Injury to both Zaheer and Singh in his colleagues resulted in his recall for the Third Test at Bangalore.
Pathan gained selection for the 2007–08 tour of Australia, but did not play in the first two Tests with only two pacemen chosen.
Zaheer and Singh were the first-choice pace duo before the former was injured and replaced by Ishant, who had taken five wickets in the first innings of the Bangalore Test.
He took 15 wickets at 23.33 at the economy rate of 6.60 runs per over.
He returned to play for Baroda in the Ranji Trophy.
He struggled in the warm-up matches, totalling 1/49 in five overs, and again in the first round of matches, bowling five overs and conceding 42 runs without success.
Sreesanth is noted for his exuberant and emotional behaviour, especially whilst appealing for and celebrating wickets.
He has been warned several times for indiscipline both on and off the cricket field, and frequently fined for violating the player conduct guidelines of the International Cricket Council .
In November 2009, however, after more than 18 months of omission from the national team, Sreesanth was recalled to the Test squad for the first two matches against Sri Lanka.
In the English-language media, Sreesanth's full name has been the source of some confusion.
He has been variously referred to as "Sree Sreesanth",  In September 2007, Sreesanth said that his name was just "Sreesanth" and that the other variations were incorrect:"It's Sreesanth.
There is no Shanthakumaran Sreesanth, there is no S. Sreesanth.
Decision and cancellation of name change When his form slumped in 2006, Sreesanth had tried to change his luck by changing his name to Sreesunth, on numerological advice.
He later stated that he was not going to change the name due to sentimental reasons.
The word 'santh' in his name is derived from his father's name Santhakumaran Nair.
Sharma bowled an economical spell  and took his first wicket in his fourth over dismissing Zimbabwe opening batsman Sikandar Raza .
His debut match was against Australia .
He took one wicket when he bowled out Australian all-rounder Shane Watson .
He is the Third Highest Wicket Taker for India in 2015 Cricket World Cup .He took wicket of Sachin Tendulkar in his final Ranji match  is an Indian cricketer .
He represents Bengal cricket team .
In 2000 he was picked for the National Cricket Academy.
His international career ended without any major impact.
He scored 106* from 90 balls, and Anustup Majumdar scored 50* from 45 balls to win the Vijay Hazare Trophy with 23 balls to spare.
Following his success as an all rounder in the Vijay Hazare Trophy 2012, he was made the captain of Bengal in the Vijay Hazare Trophy 2013.
He started the tournament brilliantly, taking 5/34 and thus restricting Odisha to only 175, and winning the match by 11 runs.
Youth and domestic career Kohli first played for Delhi Under-15 team in October 2002 in the 2002–03 Polly Umrigar Trophy.
He was the leading run-getter for his team in that tournament with 172 runs at an average of 34.40.
In July 2006, Kohli was selected in the India Under-19 squad on its tour of England.
Kohli made his first-class debut for Delhi against Tamil Nadu in November 2006, at the age of 18, and scored 10 in his debut innings.
He came into the spotlight in December when he decided to play for his team against Karnataka on the day after his father's death and went on to score 90.
In April 2007, he made his Twenty20 debut and finished as the highest run-getter for his team in the Inter-State T20 Championship with 179 runs at an average of 35.80.
He likes to impose himself on the game, backs it up with his skill."—

I just became so much more mentally stronger.
I have now learned to bat in pressure conditions.
I am very focused now."—
Kohli on his performance in the Emerging Players Tournament.
Kohli was selected in the four-team Emerging Players Tournament in July–August 2009 held in Australia.
He opened the innings for India Emerging Players in that tournament and finished as the leading run-getter with 398 runs from seven matches at an average of 66.33.
Kohli then replaced the injured Gambhir in Indian squad for the tri-series in Sri Lanka .
Raina was named captain and Kohli vice-captain for the tri-series against Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe in Zimbabwe in May–June 2010, as many first-choice players skipped the tour.
Kohli made 168 runs at 42.00 including two fifties in the series.
His struggles with form continued in the tri-series against Sri Lanka and New Zealand in Sri Lanka where he averaged 15.  15.Kohli batting against New Zealand in 2010.
India won the T20I in which he scored 28, World Cup, England and West Indies The inclusion of both Kohli and Raina in the World Cup squad resulted in speculations about which of the two batsmen will make it to the playing eleven.
Days before India's first match of the tournament, Indian captain Dhoni indicated that the in-form Kohli is likely to be preferred over Raina.
Kohli was one of three uncapped players in the Test squad.
In the tri-series, Kohli top-scored with 31 in India's opening loss to Australia, Kohli was appointed the vice-captain for the 2012 Asia Cup in Bangladesh on the back of his fine performance in Australia.
Kris Srikkanth, the chairman of selectors, told reporters, "Hats off to Virat Kohli for the way he played.
We have to start looking towards the future.
The selection committee and the Board felt Kohli is future captaincy material."
Kohli was awarded the man of the match in both matches that India won, but India could not progress to the final of the tournament.
He looks to me like an individual of my own heart.
He reminds me of myself."—
Kohli scored his fourth Test century  at Chennai in the first match of the home Test series against Australia in February 2013.
Maiden captaincy stint and setting records Kohli batting against South Africa at Cardiff during the Champions Trophy in June 2013.
India lost the match by one wicket, and Dhoni was subsequently ruled out of the series with Kohli being named captain for the remaining matches.
I was fortunate to be part of that process of seeing him grow and that give me immense pleasure."—
This was also the last Test series for Tendulkar and Kohli was expected to take Tendulkar's number four batting position after the series.
Kohli continued to amass runs on the subsequent New Zealand tour .
India narrowly lost the next two matches to Sri Lanka and Pakistan, with Kohli scoring 48 and 5. India were knocked out of the tournament even before their eight-wicket win over Afghanistan, in which Kohli did not bat.
Kohli and other senior players were rested for India's tour of Bangladesh ahead of the England tour .
Kohli ended up this series being the 6th highest run-scorer and the third leading run-scorer for India, behind both Rohit Sharma and Ajinkya Rahane .
The Royal Challengers coach Ray Jennings opined that the 22-year-old would become the future captain of not only the franchise but also the Indian team.
After Vettori's retirement, Kohli was appointed as the team's captain for the 2013 season .
The Royal Challengers finished fifth on the league table that year, but Kohli found success with the bat.
Kohli playing the flick shot during the 2015 Cricket World Cup .
Kohli is often compared to Tendulkar, due to their similar styles of batting, and is sometimes referred to as Tendulkar's "successor".
Kohli is noted for his on-field aggression and was described in the media as "brash" and "arrogant" during his early career.
According to Kohli, football is his second favourite sport.
Career in 2013–14Pietersen batting during the 2013 Ashes Pietersen featured in the three-Test series in New Zealand in February 2013, scoring 73 in the second match.
A knee injury forced him to miss the return home series in May that year, however, and prompted fears over fitness for the upcoming 2013 Ashes series.
His return Ashes tour over the winter of 2013–14 was less successful, however.
He remained nevertheless England's leading run scorer with 294 runs.
Pietersen gained several awards for his performances in the 2005 season.
Before Europeans, the island was inhabited by the Kalinago people .
As European explorers and settlers entered the region, indigenous refugees from surrounding islands settled Dominica and pushed out the Spanish settlers, who found other areas easier to control and with more resources.
France colonised Dominica for several years, importing numerous African slaves to work on plantations.
Spain had little success in colonising Dominica.
In 1632, the French Compagnie des Îles de l'Amérique claimed Dominica and other "Petite Antilles" for France, but no physical occupation took place.
Between 1642 and 1650, French missionary Raymond Breton became the first regular European visitor to the island.
In 1660, the French and English agreed that Dominica and St. Vincent should not be settled, but left to the Caribs as neutral territory.
Dominica was officially neutral for the next century.
But its natural resources attracted rival expeditions of English and French foresters, who began harvesting timber by the start of the 18th century.
Already installed in Martinique and Guadeloupe and cultivating sugar cane, the French gradually developed plantations in Dominique for coffee.
They imported so many African slaves to fill the labour demands that the population became overwhelmingly African in ethnicity.
After France lost the war in 1763, it ceded the island to Britain under the Treaty of Paris  .
French remained the official language, but Antillean Creole was spoken by most people.
French invasions in 1795 and 1805 ended in failure.
In 1835, the first three men of African descent were elected to the legislative assembly.
Many slaves from the neighbouring islands of Guadeloupe and Martinique fled to Dominica.
In 1838, Dominica became the first British Caribbean colony to have an elected legislature controlled by an ethnic African majority; most of these legislators had been smallholders or merchants before the abolition of slavery.
Their economic and social views were different from the interests of the small, wealthy English planter class.
In 1865, after much agitation and tension, the colonial office replaced the elective assembly with one that had one-half of members who were elected and one-half who were appointed.
Planters allied with colonial administrators outmaneuvered the elected legislators on many occasions.
In 1871, Dominica became part of the Leeward Island Federation .
The power of the ethnic African population progressively eroded.
Crown Colony government was re-established in 1896.
All political rights were curtailed for people of colour and blacks, who were the overwhelming majority of the population.
Development aid, offered as compensation for disfranchisement, resulted in negligible improvements in conditions for most ethnic Africans.
After the war, an upsurge of political consciousness throughout the Caribbean led to the formation of the Representative Government Association .
Shortly thereafter, Dominica was transferred from the Leeward Island Administration .
Thousands of Free French refugees from Martinique and Guadeloupe escaped to Dominica from the Vichy -controlled French islands and stayed in Roseau and villages.
Until 1958, Dominica was governed as part of the Windwards .
The British Crown was no longer the head of state.
In mid-1979, political discontent led to the formation of an interim government.
Chronic economic problems were compounded by the severe impact of hurricanes in 1979 and in 1980.
On 17 September 2012 Eliud Thaddeus Williams was sworn in as President, replacing Dr Nicholas Liverpool who was reportedly removed from office due to ill health.
The capital is Roseau .
The volcanic nature of the island has attracted scuba divers .
On his second voyage to the Caribbean, Dominica was the first New World country that Christopher Columbus discovered.
There are two primary population centres: Roseau .
Dominica, known as "The Nature Island of the Caribbean" due to its spectacular, lush, and varied flora and fauna, which are protected by an extensive natural park system; the most mountainous of the Lesser Antilles, its volcanic peaks are cones of lava craters and include Boiling Lake, the second-largest, thermally active lake in the world possesses the most pristine wilderness in the Caribbean.
Originally, it was protected by sheer mountains which led the European powers to build ports and agricultural settlements on other islands.
More recently, the citizens of this island have sought to preserve its spectacular natural beauty by discouraging the type of high-impact tourism which has damaged nature in most of the Caribbean.
Both birds are rare and protected, though some forest is still threatened by logging in addition to the long-standing threat of hurricanes.
The Caribbean Sea offshore of the island of Dominica is home to many cetaceans .
Dominica is especially vulnerable to hurricanes as the island is located in what is referred to as the hurricane region.
In 1979, Dominica was hiefeated both Bangladesh and Ireland to move into the next round.
Since then, Pathan was dropped from the limited overs team and was then injured for an extended period, until he made his return to cricket in the Ranji Trophy in November.
He played in six matches for Baroda as captain and was successful with both bat and ball, scoring 397 runs at 49.62 and taking 22 wickets at 18.54.
In his most productive first-class season with the bat, Pathan made starts in eight of his nine innings, only failing to reach 24 once, and scoring four fifties, although he was unable to convert any to triple figures.
In his fourth match of the season, Pathan top-scored in both innings with 68 and 81 as Baroda lost to Karnataka by an innings after making 153 and 223.
His fifth wicket brought up his 300th scalp at first-class level.

His strong performances led to his inclusion in the Asia Cup squad.
He picked up two more wickets in the next two games.
He was the part of the team touring South Africa for the one T20 played on 31 March 2012 where he had figures of 4–0–44–1 but was yet to bat.
The Cricket Academy Of Pathans was jointly launched by Irfan and Yusuf Pathan .The academy has tied up with former India coach Greg Chappell and Cameron Tradell as chief mentors.
The column title Match refers to the Match Number of his career.
Yuvraj started his career from the Punjab Under-16s at the age of 13 years and 11 months in November of the 1995–96 season against Jammu and Kashmir-16s .
Yuvraj made his first-class debut in late-1997 against Orissa during the 1997/98 Ranji Trophy season.
In that match, he did not score any runs.
He made his international debut against Kenya in the pre-quarterfinal.
He bowled four overs conceding 16 runs but did not get to bat.
He scored only 14 against New Zealand in the final which India lost.
Yuvraj scored just 55 runs in five innings at an average of 11.
Yuvraj made his comeback during the 2001 Coca-Cola Cup in Sri Lanka.
Following this, Dinesh Mongia and Hemang Badani were chosen over Yuvraj in the squad for the home series against England in January 2002.
Yuvraj returned to playing domestic cricket in early-2002.
The NatWest Series featured teams from England and Sri Lanka, apart from India.
The final was played at Lord's on 13 July between India and England.
In reply, India were struggling at 146/5 at the end of 24 overs, when Kaif joined Yuvraj at the crease.
India went on to win the game by two wickets with three balls to spare.
Yuvraj scored 37 in India's opening match against Netherlands .
He scored 16 in the semifinal against Kenya, and 24 against Australia in the final.
In May 2003, Yuvraj was signed-up by the Yorkshire County Cricket Club for the 2003 county season.
Yuvraj became only the second Indian after Sachin Tendulkar to represent the county.
Yuvraj returned to form in early-2004 in the tri-series involving Australia and Zimbabwe.
In July–August 2005, Yuvraj was the leading run-getter for India in the 2005 Indian Oil Cup triangular series in Sri Lanka also involving the hosts Sri Lanka and West Indies.
He scored 192 runs in four matches, averaging 48.
In the two-match Test tour of Zimbabwe that followed the tri-series in September, Yuvraj had scores of 12 and 25.
Yuvraj won the man of the match award although South Africa won the game by five wickets.
After scoring 45 in the first innings, he went to score his second Test hundred in the second innings .
India lost the match by 341 runs and the series 1-0.
In the third match, he made 103 from 76 balls, and in the fourth match, he picked 2/34 and scored 48.
India went on to lose the series 4-1.
England and 27 against West Indies.
Mongia replaced him for the match which India lost to crash out of the tournament.
In November, Indian team physio Andrew Leipus suggested that Yuvraj is unlikely to recover from the injury before the start of the World Cup in March 2007.
Yuvraj was not named in any of the Indian squads that toured South Africa in late-2006.
Chasing 255 to win the match, Yuvraj was dismissed run out for 6, as India were bowled out for 185 and made an early exit from the World Cup.
He is also the first Indian player to cross 100 Sixes in Twenty 20 matches.
Yuvraj also scored 70 runs off 30 balls and went on to claim the Man of the Match against Australia in the World Twenty20 semifinals at Durban.
He was named Man of the series.
In the five matches, he scored four half-centuries, although he was fined after showing dissent in the final match in Jaipur.
Yuvraj was included in India's Test squad to face Pakistan in November 2007, but was not included in the playing 11 for the first test.
Yuvraj was picked in the 3rd Test due to an injured Sachin Tendulkar .
After his poor showing in the first two Tests he was dropped for the remainder of the series.
Yuvraj scored 85 not out put on an unbroken partnership of 163 with Sachin Tendulkar to defeat England in the First Test at Chennai in December 2008.
It was the fourth highest successful run chase in history and the highest in India.
India preserves their lead and go on to win the series 1-0.
Yuvraj was dropped from the Asia Cup following the team's return from the World Twenty20 in West Indies.
World Cup was dream for Yuvraj as he scored 362 runs including one century and four fifties takes 15 wickets, wins four Man-of-the-Match awards and is also Player of the Tournament.
In the 2011 World Cup till he took charge of the chase against defending champions Australia.
In recent years, he has added value to the side through his improved off spin.
He toured England but had to return home after breaking his finger in the Nottingham Test and later played two home Tests against West Indies.
Yuvraj had originally targeted the CB series in Australia for his return to international cricket.
His issues began with breathing difficulties, nausea and bouts of vomiting blood before India's successful run through the 2011 World Cup, which he ended as the player of the tournament.
In March 2012, Yuvraj was discharged from hospital after completing the third and final cycle of chemotherapy and returned to India in April.
After his chemotherapy sessions treating seminoma in Indianapolis, Yuvraj's cancer showing full signs of remission, he aimed at resuming cricket at the World Twenty20.
He ended up being the highest wicket taker for India in the tournament, though he could not match up to the expectations with his bat.
In October 2013, Yuvraj scored 77 off 35 showed his dominance in the only T20I against Australia at Saurashtra Cricket Association Stadium in Rajkot.
In February 2014, Yuvraj was bought by the Royal Challengers Bangalore for 14 crore.
It requests him not to play for Royal Challengers Bangalore .
He was not selected for Asia Cup 2014 in Bangladesh but he selected for the World T20 same place.
Yuvraj performances in the practice matches were major boosts for India ahead of the World T20.
In both matches, he put down what could have been costly misses Chris Gayle and Mohammad Hafeez but India created and converted more chances soon after.
His solitary over in the tournament so far went for 13.
Yuvraj Singh scored 60 of 43 balls is his third fifty against Australia at Mirpur and his eighth in T20Is.
Yuvraj has gone past Gautam Gambhir to become the top run-scorer for India in T20 internationals.
He had 84-run partnership with Mahendra Singh Dhoni is India's third-highest for the fifth wicket.
India's highest partnership for the fifth wicket came in their last match against the same opposition, when Yuvraj and Dhoni added 102 while chasing 202 in Rajkot.
Notably, Singh was one of the five senior players who were not considered for the 2015 World Cup and was not included in India's 30-man probables for the tournament.
In September 2015, Yuvraj was named Vice-Captain of the Punjab Cricket Team .
Rahul Dravid 's tenure as captain.
He was the icon player and captain for Indian Premier League  team Kings XI Punjab in the first two seasons; in 2010, the third season, icon player status was abolished and the captaincy given to Kumar Sangakkara .
They came second in the round-robin phase of the tournament, but lost their semi-final to the Chennai Super Kings .
On 17 May 2009, Yuvraj picked up his second Twenty20 hat-trick against Deccan Chargers at the Wanderers Stadium in Johannesburg.
Yuvraj Singh was bought by the team and chosen as captain.
In the early 1860s, several more clubs were founded and questions began to be raised in the sporting press about which should be categorised as first-class, but there was considerable disagreement in the answers.
In 1880, the Cricket Reporting Agency was founded.
It acquired influence through the decade especially by association with Wisden Cricketers' Almanack  and the press came to generally rely on its information and opinions.
The term "first-class cricket" was formally defined by the then Imperial Cricket Conference  on 19 May 1947.
It was made clear that the definition "will not have retrospective effect".
Matches in which either team have more than eleven players or which are scheduled for less than three days shall not be regarded as first-class.
The Governing body in each country shall decide the status of teams.
The governing body grants first-class status to international teams and to domestic teams that are representative of the country's highest playing standard.
A peculiarity of the two-innings match is the follow-on law.
If the team that batted second is substantially behind on first innings total, it may be required to bat again  in the third innings of the match.
Kaul was named in the squad for the India U-19s team for the 2008 Under-19 World Cup in Malaysia .
He played in all of India's matches as they proceeded to the final, where they defeated the South African U-19 cricket team by 12 runs .
Attempts by the New Jersey Legislature to reform local government and the school systems led to the formation of dozens of low-population boroughs .
Forty new boroughs were formed in 1894 and 1895, with the bulk in Bergen County, where townships were broken up or greatly reduced in size; few townships remain in the county today.
It remains his only ten wicket haul in Test cricket.
Prasad also took five wicket hauls in England, in 1996, in Sri Lanka, in 2001, and in the West Indies, in 1997.
Prasad played his final Test match in Sri Lanka in 2001.
Prasad was known for his slower deliveries and was one of its first proponents in world cricket.
Prasad struggled with injuries and dipping form towards the end of his career.
He was dropped from the Indian team after 2001 test series in Sri Lanka.
He was made coach of the India Under-19 Cricket team in January.
He was the coach of the U-19 team that finished runners-up in the 2006 U-19 Cricket World Cup .
It was the second marriage for Jayanthi.
Jayanthi did not have any children from her first marriage.
The origin of the name Barbados is either the Portuguese word Barbados or the Spanish equivalent los Barbados, both meaning "the bearded ones".
Furthermore, the island of Barbuda in the Leewards is very similar in name and was once named Las Barbudas by the Spanish.
It is uncertain which European nation arrived first in Barbados.
According to some sources it was the Spanish.
The original name for Barbados in the Pre-Columbian era was Ichirouganaim according to accounts by descendants of the indigenous Arawakan -speaking tribes in other regional areas, with possible translations including "Red land with white teeth", Other names or nicknames associated with Barbados include "Bim" and "Bimshire".
The origin is uncertain but several theories exist.
Wiltshire, Hampshire, Berkshire and Bimshire
Bussa led the largest slave rebellion in Barbadian history.
The Spanish and Portuguese briefly claimed Barbados from the late 16th to the 17th centuries.
The Arawaks are believed to have fled to neighbouring islands.
Apart from possibly displacing the Caribs, the Spanish and Portuguese made little impact and left the island uninhabited.
Some Arawaks migrated from British Guiana  in the 19th century and continue to live in Barbados.
This Test series was marked by Ganguly's comeback to the Indian team.
In December 2006, India played and won its first ever Twenty20 international in South Africa, becoming the most recent Test team to play Twenty20 cricket.
However, defeats to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka saw India fail to reach the second round.
In April 2009, India secured their first Test series win in New Zealand in 41 years.
They retained the ranking by drawing series against South Africa and Sri Lanka.
In October 2010, India whitewashed Australia 2–0 in the home Test series, giving them back-to-back series wins against them.
Later that year, India managed to draw the Test series in South Africa at 1–1.
India's results in international matches Editors are invited to consider candidates for the 2015 English Wikipedia Arbitration Committee elections .
Free subscriptions to high-quality paywalled journals, newspaper archives, and online reference works are available for Wikipedia editors.
Any tricks or techniques to get things done easier or faster?
All suggestions are welcome, from tips for beginners to the techniques of power users.
Come share your wiki expertise.
To see today's tip, go to the bottom of this page .
The newly created WikiProject Women in Red is seeking editors to write articles about notable women.
The African football task force of WikiProject Football has just been created.
He took three wickets for 24 runs, all of which were bowled out, which included England's top scorer Tim Bresnan in that match.
Previously, he had traveled to England during India's disastrous tour earlier that year, but remained benched.
He returned figures of 1/52.
He made his odi comeback against Sri Lanka where he only able to bowl 4.1 overs before he injures his ankle.
He was selected in the Test squad for the first time in India's home series against the West Indies .
In July 2014, Aaron was selected by India for the five match Test series to be played in England .
Aaron has also played in the India vs.
Aaron says he won't compromise on pace" .
Dhawan to lead team in Emerging Players tournament
He's an aggressive right-handed batsman and has gained attention from selectors and fans through his strokeplay and high runs scoring in Indian domestic cricket.
Because of his front foot play and ability to attack the bowler by charging down the pitch, many have compared his batting style to England's Kevin Pietersen .
He later got picked for England's tour of India in October.
He also played the only T20 and scored 15 runs.
Eventually India won the match by 34 runs and he was awarded the Man-Of-The-Match for this match-winning knock.
Even after the unbeaten century, Tiwary was made to sit in the reserves for 14 successive matches following the century.
However, he made an auspicious comeback as an all-rounder replacing leg spinner Rahul Sharma against Sri Lanka at Colombo as he took 4/61 from his 10 overs with his leg-breaks to restrict the hosts to 251/8.
India eventually won the match as Virat Kohli scored an unbeaten ton.
Tiwary also was picked for the Commonwealth Bank tri-series against Australia and Sri Lanka,but he didn't play any matches.
Manoj Tiwary was again selected in the Indian team for the Asia Cup 2012 where again he didn't play any matches.
Tiwary was also selected for the lone T20 against South Africa which was played celebrating 150 years of settlement of Indians in South Africa.
In the fifell in the last over and the hosts ended five runs adrift of the target.
Harbhajan ended the series with 81 runs at 20.25.
In the three home Tests against Sri Lanka, Harbhajan was the highest wicket-taker with 13 scalps, but these came at an average cost of 41.00.
After taking 2/189 in the drawn First Test, he aggregated 5/152 and 6/192 as India took the next two fixtures by an innings.
During the tri-series in Bangladesh in January 2010, Harbhajan took six wickets at 24.00 in three matches.
During New Zealand's tour of India in November 2010, Harbhajan scored his maiden Test century during the First Test in Ahmedabad.
His 115, along with Laxman's 91 saved the game for India after they had collapsed to 5/15.
Harbhajan was named man of the match.
He followed on in the next test with 111* in India's 1st innings, becoming the first no.
He returned to competitive cricket to lead the Mumbai Indians to 2011 Champions League Twenty20 title, but fell out of favor with the national selectors.
He was not chosen in the home series squad against England in October and West Indies in November and December.
Mumbai Indians won their first ever championship under his captaincy, winning the Champions League by 31 runs.
Harbhajan was man of the match for his contribution.
Harbhajan was also not selected for the Australian tour and the 2012 Asia Cup in Bangladesh.
In his debut match for Essex against Gloucestershire, Harbhajan did not take any wicket on 12 July 2012, conceding 33 runs in his 12 overs.
This series will be very crucial for Harbhajan and his career.
English: Ishant Sharma is an Indian cricketer.
Media in category "Ishant Sharma "The following 14 files are in this category, out of 14 total.
Grab your Starter kit and learn how you can contribute to MediaWiki and the free culture community.
The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.
Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.
However, Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here.
The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.
Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works also have disclaimers .
Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or featured article processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in any way connected with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly.
Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.
Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.
Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.
You are solely responsible for ensuring that you do not infringe someone else's personality rights.
Jurisdiction and legality of content Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.
The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law.
Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.
Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce or republish the information contained herein.
Featured content in Wikipedia Featured content represents the best that Wikipedia can offer.
This includes the articles, pictures, and other contributions that showcase the polished result of the collaborative efforts that drive Wikipedia.
This page gives links to all of Wikipedia's featured content.
Many visitors come to Wikipedia to acquire knowledge, while others come to share knowledge.
At this very instant, dozens of articles are being improved, and new articles are also being created.
Another 22,000 articles are designated as good articles .
Articles can be found using the search box on the top-right side of the screen.
Wikipedia is available in languages other than English.
All of these are maintained, updated, and managed by separate communities, and often include information and articles that can be hard to find through other common sources.
Holding the mouse over the link will often show to where the link will lead.
Some articles may also have links to dictionary definitions, audio-book readings, quotations, the same article in other languages, and further information available on our sister projects .
Users should be aware that not all articles are of encyclopedic quality from the start: they may contain false or debatable information.
However, eventually, additional editors expand and contribute to articles and strive to achieve balance and comprehensive coverage.
An increasing number of articles reach this standard over time, and many already have.
Some articles contain statements which have not yet been fully cited .
Others will later be augmented with new sections.
Some information will be considered by later contributors to be insufficiently founded and, therefore, may be removed.
Wikipedia has advantages over traditional paper encyclopedias.
In addition, Wikipedia has wikilinks instead of in-line explanations and it incorporates overview summaries  with the extensive detail of full articles.
Tips for creating great books Topic and title There are almost no limits when creating books from Wikipedia content.
You can either save it directly to Book:Title, or move it there from your userspace.
It is possible to create books through editing as well.
Fig. 2: Click on the green button to start the book creator.
From now on, this toolbar will appear on top of every Wikipedia article.
To add the currently viewed page to your book, just click on "Add this page to your book.
Clicking on "Add this category to your book" will add all articles in that category.
You don't even have to open every page, you want to add to your book.
Once you are happy with the articles you collected, click on "Show book" to manage your book.
This screenshot is obsolete.
You can save your book on the "Book" page, which can be reached by clicking the "Show book" link in the menu on the left hand side or in the toolbar.
In the "Save and share your book" section you have to choose whether you want to save your book in the "community-maintained" Books namespace .
The second option is only available if your user account is autoconfirmed .
Key contributor Sun Microsystems made an irrevocable intellectual property covenant, providing all implementers with the guarantee that Sun will not seek to enforce any of its enforceable U.S. or foreign patents against any implementation of the OpenDocument specification in which development Sun participates to the point of incurring an obligation.
For example:The OpenDoc Society run frequent Plugfests in association with industry groups and Public Sector organisations.
The 10th Plugfest  was hosted by the UK Government Digital Service in conjunction with industry associations including the OpenForum Europe and the Open Source Consortium .
The first Test match was played on 28–31 December 1934, and was won by England.
Considerable merits of the bid included the superior venues and infrastructure, and the total support of the Australian and New Zealand governments on tax and custom issues during the tournament, according to Cricket Australia chief executive James Sutherland .
Inevitable differences have arisen and there are variations in published first-class statistics .
A key issue for the statisticians is when first-class cricket for their purpose is deemed to have begun.
Writing in 1951, Roy Webber argued that the majority of matches prior to 1864  "cannot be regarded as first-class" and their records are used "for their historical associations".
Subsequently, Webber's view has been challenged by those who suggest earlier dates for the commencement of "first-class statistics".
Bill Frindall believed that 1815 should be the start to encompass the entire roundarm bowling phase of cricket's history.
However, roundarm did not begin in earnest until 1827.
However commendable these views may be, they are not only unofficial but also entirely statistical.
This major cricket match has enormous historical significance but has no value at all for statisticians as there is no surviving data.
Cricket at the Oval began in 1882 when the Pickwick Cricket Club assumed formal ownership of the ground.
Although many types of grass options was suggested to be used for the outfield, it was decided to use Tifway 419 hybrid Bermuda grass as this type of grass is highly disease resistant, dense and spreads quickly to ensure quick recovery from injury and allows close mowing.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
South Africa's first test match after re-admission was against the West Indies in April 1992.
The match was played in Bridgetown, Barbados and South Africa lost by 52 runs.
Since South Africa have been reinstated they have achieved mixed success, and hosted the International Cricket Council Cricket World Cup in 2003.
In 2003, South Africa were one of the favourites but were eliminated by one run in the group stages after they had mistakenly counted the number of runs they needed.
At the age of 29, he became the first non-white man to captain the once all-white South African cricket team.
After Smith's retirement, Hashim Amla was appointed captain of the test side, leading his side to victory in his first test in charge, in Galle in Sri Lanka .
Australia progressed on the basis of its superior run rate through the tournament.
In addition to surrendering commanding positions in the above matches, South Africa suffered upset losses against the West Indies in 1996 and New Zealand in 2011 .
South Africa lost the game marginally as they missed two run outs and two catches.
Weather forecast has been displayed for the next 10 days.
MS Dhoni will take over the captaincy from Raina for the Tests, and Zaheer will return, but the other seniors will miss the Test leg as well.
"There's always pressure and we have done well under pressure.
It's for us as players to execute the plans of the coach well.
We have to play our natural game."The
However, after receiving the call and organising travel arrangements, it was decided not to send him on the tour.
Domestic and first-class career Ishant plays for Delhi in domestic cricket and has taken 68 wickets in 14  first-class games, Ishant toured England with the India Under-19s in 2006 and Pakistan in 2006–07.
He played three youth tests and six youth One Day Internationals for India.
This was the highest amount paid for any bowler in tournament.
Later on, he was called for the tour of England in July–August 2007.
Sharma was left out in the Boxing Day Test at Melbourne during the Border–Gavaskar Trophy as India retained their main fast bowlers, Zaheer Khan and RP Singh.
He bowled reasonably in the match, however without much luck.
Although he had little success, the management retained him for the third Test match at Perth.
On the fourth day of the match he bowled an exceptional spell to Australian captain Ricky Ponting that resulted in his wicket and helped India claim victory.
He ended the match with figures of 4/38 and named Man of the Match.
He was noted for achieving reverse swing on balls sometimes as young as eight overs, and along with senior opening bowler Zaheer Khan, troubled the touring Australians.
However, in 2009, Ishant's form slumped, and he was dropped for the second Test against Sri Lanka, replaced by Sreesanth .
Ishant provided Laxman with support during an 81-run partnership in which he contributed 31 valuable runs.
He claimed his 100th Test wicket in the second Test, becoming the fifth youngest to reach thally, the editorial cycle is short.
A paper encyclopedia stays the same until the next edition, whereas editors can update Wikipedia at any instant, around the clock, keeping articles abreast of the most recent events and scholarship.
This allows Wikipedia to significantly reduce regional and cultural bias found in many other publications, and makes it very difficult for any group to censor and impose bias .
A large, diverse editor base also provides access and breadth on subject matter that is otherwise inaccessible or little documented.
A large number of editors contributing at any moment also means that Wikipedia can produce encyclopedic articles and resources covering newsworthy events within hours or days of their occurrence.
It also means that like any publication, Wikipedia may reflect the cultural, age, socio-economic, and other biases of its contributors.
There is no systematic process to make sure that "obviously important" topics are written about, so Wikipedia may contain unexpected oversights and omissions.
Some topics may not be covered well, while others may be covered in great depth.
Allowing anyone to edit Wikipedia means that it is more easily vandalized or susceptible to unchecked information, which requires removal.
See Wikipedia:Administrator intervention against vandalism .
Wikipedia's open approach tremendously increases the chances that any particular factual error or misleading statement will be relatively promptly corrected.
Numerous editors at any given time are monitoring recent changes and edits to articles on their watchlists .
Wikipedia is written by open and transparent consensus—an approach that has its pros and cons.
Reaching neutrality is occasionally made harder by extreme-viewpoint contributors .
That said, articles and subject areas sometimes suffer from significant omissions, and while misinformation and vandalism are usually corrected quickly, this does not always happen.
Wikipedia is written largely by amateurs.
Those with expert credentials are given no additional weight.
Wikipedia is also not subject to any peer review for scientific, medical or engineering articles.
One advantage to having amateurs write in Wikipedia is that they have more free time on their hands so that they can make rapid changes in response to current events.
As with any source, information should be checked.
Pragyan Ojha made his debut in first class cricket in 2004/05 and represented India at the under-19 level as well.
The left arm spinner is known for his ability to flight the ball.
He is the only Hyderabadi to have played in all three formats of the game for India.
Pragyan Ojha represents Hyderabad Cricket Association in domestic cricket.
He has previously played for Deccan Chargers and currently plays for Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League.
He played his first One Day International match against Bangladesh on 28 June 2008 in Karachi and ended up with figures of 2/43.
On 24 November 2009, Ojha made his Test debut in the Second Test against Sri Lanka in Kanpur, replacing Amit Mishra and gaining figures of 2/37 off 23 overs and 2/36 off of 15.3 overs in India's 100th Test win.
He then took five wickets in the Third Test in another innings win for India, taking nine wickets at 28.66 in two Tests.
Ojha became the 800th and final Test victim of Muttiah Muralitharan, the highest wicket-taker in Test history.
He was awarded Man of the Match for his outstanding and match-winning performance.
In August, 2011 he signed to play for Surrey for the final few weeks of the 2011 season.
The drift and turn in the air are attacking techniques.
For any version listed below, click on its date to view it.
For more help, see Help:Page history and Help:Edit summary .
Most of the Malayalam TV channels are based in Thiruvananthapuram.
The government-owned Doordarshan began broadcasting from here in 1981.
All India Radio has an AM  101.9 MHz, Thiruvananthapuram city contains the largest number of theatres in Kerala.
There are two film studios in the city— Chithranjali and Merryland .
Leading firms like Prasad Labs have set up their facilities here.
The International Film Festival of Kerala  is held in November/December and is acknowledged as one of the leading events of its kind in India.
The number of mobile phone connections has increased exponentially since the late 1990s.
The most popular games are Football and Cricket .
Basketball, Badminton and Volleyball are popular, mostly in schools.
The Kerala Cricket Association  is headquartered in Thiruvananthapuram.
Trivandrum is the sports capital of Kerala.Trivandrum has Asia's best 2015 Multi-functional Cricket Cum Football International Stadium at Kazhakkoottam and India's best shooting range at Vattiyoorkkavu.
It is also the first stadium in the country to be developed on annuity mode.
It is the proposed venue for the opening/closing ceremonies of the 35th National Games to be held in Kerala.
The University Stadium has hosted two international cricket matches.
The Central Stadium, which has facilities for athletics, football, basketball, volleyball and cricket practice nets, is situated on the eastern side of the Government Secretariat.
It is one of the oldest golf courses in India, more than 150 years old.
The city has the Thiruvananthapuram Tennis Club  at Kowdiar.
Many state level and national level swimming competitions are held in this complex.
It also holds coaching camps for those who are interested in learning swimming.
Being the largest city in India's deep south, it is important for military logistics and civil aviation in the southern part of the country.
It is the headquarters of the Southern Air Command  of the Indian Air Force .
The owners failed to save the team after several attempts were made with the Bombay High Court and Supreme Court of India .
Main article: List of 2013 Indian Premier League personnel changes In October 2012, the teams were allowed to release any number of their players from their contracts to reduce their player costs.
The released players would have the option of entering the auction.
Their deliberation was due to the tournament's dates clashing with the Bangladesh tour of Zimbabwe .
Despite the progress on the restoration of cricketing relations between India and Pakistan after the Pakistan national cricket team toured India in December 2012 and January 2013, no Pakistani players were included in the auction.
Chennai's Sri Lankan players hold secondary positions in their team while some Sri Lankans in other teams play key roles and their absence in those matches would affect their team strategies.
Kolkata would then struggle and lose five of their next six matches due to good batting performances only coming from captain Gautam Gambhir and Eoin Morgan .
Both Delhi and Kolkata were positioned at the bottom of the points table for the first half of the season.
This included Gayle's score of 175 not out, the highest in Twenty20 cricket.
Also at the middle of the points table was the Rajasthan Royals .
They won matches with cohesive batting and bowling where different players delivered match-winning contributions.
In the second half of the season, Chennai continued to be dominant and held their number-one position on the points table while Mumbai, Rajasthan, Bangalore and Hyderabad were evenly matched as they switched between the positions of second to fifth.
Mumbai excelled to win seven out of eight matches with improved bowling performances around Mitchell Johnson and Pollard producing an unbeaten innings of 66 runs from 27 balls.
Bangalore's schedule had them play six consecutive away matches, of which they could only win two due to their bowling attack struggling on away surfaces and repeatedly failures to defend high scores set by Gayle, Kohli and de Villiers.
The illustration has now been translated in to more than 10 languages.
Several organisations, such as the OpenDocument Fellowship and OpenDoc Society were founded to support and promote OpenDocument.
Several governments around the world have introduced policies of partial or complete adoption.
Clicking the Order book from PediaPress button, will take you to the website of PediaPress .
Standard article naming conventions apply; in particular, do not capitalize regular nouns except when they come at the beginning of the title.
".Names of set categories should be plural.
However, abbreviations that have become the official or generally used name  should be used where there are no other conflicts.
Don't write the category structure in names.
Particularly for technical subjects, use words and phrases which exist in reliable sources, so that those sources may be used to support inclusion of articles.
Be careful to choose the right one when categorizing articles.
See also Category:Lists .
All WikiProject categories should have "WikiProject"  as part of the name.
Note that this does not apply to the names of categories that projects might create for the use of assessments.
Delhi and Pune failed to recover from their poor starts to the season and were the first to be eliminated from the tournament, similar to their performances in 2011 .
Both Punjab and Kolkata needed to win every one of their remaining matches for any chance of qualification.
Smith was again the top-scorer for Mumbai, scoring 68 but better support from other batsmen allowed Mumbai to win with one ball remaining.
They started well with the ball, reducing Chennai to 39-6, but captain MS Dhoni led from the front.
However, he lacked support from the other end.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Using the book creator After the book creator has been enabled, the box as seen below is shown above each wiki page.
Add this page to your book Adds the currently viewed article  to your book.
On that page, you can change the order of the articles in your book and structure them using chapters.
This tool allows to create books quickly.
This will disable the Book creator and delete your book .
Click on this link, and the linked article will be added to your book.
In December,2014 Ojha was barred from bowling in competitive cricket after his action was found to be illegal.
Later on 30 January 2015 ojha cleared the test and was allowed to resume his bowling.
Pragyan Ojha tied the nuptial knot with Karabee Kailash on 16 May 2010.
The marriage was held with complete Oriya traditions, customs and rituals.
He was discharged from the hospital after check up.
Pragyan Ojha was awarded Man of the Match for his outstanding figures of 5/40 and 5/49, against West Indies which was Sachin's last and 200th test match, 14-16 Nov 2013.
He then travelled to Malaysia in February 2008 for the Under-19 World Cup.
On 21 January 2009, Boult was selected for the New Zealand squad for the one-day series against Australia at just 19 years of age.
Boult only managed to play in the warm up game against the Prime Minister's XI and went wicketless of seven overs.
His brother Jono Boult has also played cricket for Northern Districts.
However, when back in home conditions against the touring West Indies, Boult swiftly returned to his best.
In the first innings of the second test on the same venue against India, Boult made another one-handed diving right-handed catch to dismiss Ajinkya Rahane .
He makes up for his relative lack of height with deceptive pace and the ability to swing the ball both ways.
Boult's primary weapon is the inswinger to the right-hander.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, his childhood cricketing hero was Wasim Akram .
He is also known to haul in one-handed catches with either hand, both in Basin Reserve .
He tends to open his stance by stepping the left  foot up before the ball reaches the bat.
Media files on Wikipedia Some Wikipedia articles contain sound and video files Some Wikipedia articles include sound or video files, that can be played on almost all personal computers.
However, your computer must have the right software.
If your computer does not automatically play these files when you click on them, downloading and installing free software from the Internet can enable it to do so.
Sound files on Wikipedia generally use the Vorbis audio format, and video files use the Theora format, both contained in an Ogg file.
India won by 117 runs Player of the match: Cheteshwar Pujara Sri Lanka won the toss and elected to field.
Naman Ojha  made their Test debuts.
This was 14th time that two wicketkeepers made their debuts in the same Test match.
Ishant Sharma  took his 7th five-wicket haul in Test matches.
His 5/54 are the best bowling figures by an Indian pace bowler in Sri Lanka .
"I was heavily criticised by the English authorities.
It's important to do that considering the heavy schedule.
We need to look into the matter as we go into the future."He said he looked forward to working with the youngsters, but cautioned against complacency.
" Any team playing at home is difficult to beat.
We should not be complacent.
England in England and Australia in Australia.
But the first job is the tour of the West Indies.
It's very important not to look too far down the road.
The young players have the potential and this tour will show the depth of talent we have."He

"That's the way it is in modern day sports.
We have to ensure that all the players are fit enough."India's
In cricket, however, one team, said to be "batting", attempts to score runs while the other team, said to be "fielding", attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out.
An individual innings usually lasts until the batsman is given out, or until the end of the team innings.
The word inning meaning 'a gathering in' is first recorded in 1522, and could be related.
The term innings is also used to refer to the play of one particular player .
The baseball-derived parallel to this in American English is the term at bat .
A total of 32 players have captained the Indian Test team so far and among them, Mahendra Singh Dhoni has the highest win rate .
As of 2012, Nawab of Pataudi remains the youngest captain for India in test matches.
The stumps are three vertical posts which support two bails .
The overall width of each wicket is 9 inches  tall with maximum and minimum diameters of 11⁄inches  and 13⁄inches .
In junior cricket the items have lesser dimensions.
Middle  stump  is the centre stump, the middle of the three stumps.
Leg stump  is the stump on the on side of the wicket .
Although they are too far away from spectators to be seen, such logos are visible on television coverage.
The appeal is normally directed to the square-leg umpire, who would be in the best position to adjudicate on the appeal.
It is governed by Law 39 of the Laws of cricket .
If the bails are removed before the wicket-keeper has the ball, the batsman can still be stumped if the wicket-keeper removes one of the stumps from the ground, while holding the ball in his hand.
The bowler is credited for the batsman's wicket, and the wicket-keeper is credited for the dismissal.
The popping crease is defined as the back edge of the crease marking .
For geographical photo requests, the category name should be 'Wikipedia requested photographs in xxx' as in  After you have determined an appropriate category name and know its parent category, you are ready to create the new category.
Do this by editing the article page.
Next, to create the category, click on that red link, which brings you back into the editor.
This description, not the category's name, defines the proper content of the category.
Do not leave future editors to guess about what or who should be included from the title of the category.
Even if the selection criteria might seem obvious to you, an explicit standard is helpful to others, especially if they are less familiar with the subject.
Another technique that can be used is described at Wikipedia:Classification .
Various templates have been developed to make it easier to produce category descriptions; see Category namespace templates .
A maximum of 200 category entries are displayed per screen.
Using the book creator After the book creator has been enabled, the box as seen below is shown above each wiki page.
Add this page to your book Adds the currently viewed article  to your book.
On that page, you can change the order of the articles in your book and structure them using chapters.
This tool allows to create books quickly.
This will disable the Book creator and delete your book .
Click on this link, and the linked article will be added to your book.
The Add this page to your book link will have changed into Add this category to your book.
Click on this new link, and all the articles in that category will be added to your book.
Relevant categories may be found at the very bottom of Wikipedia articles.
Categories can also be added by hovering category links.
To edit this page, please enter the words that appear below in the box :Can't see the image?
Request an account Wikipedia is made by people like you.
India in Bangladesh, 2007 May 18, 2007Ishant Sharma to replace injured Munaf Ishant Sharma will definitely join the Indian Test squad this time Ishant Sharma, the young Delhi fast bowler, will replace the injured Munaf Patel in the Indian Test squad in Bangladesh.
Munaf, who missed the first Test in Chittagong with pain in his lower back, will fly back to India, and it is expected that Ishant will leave Delhi for Chittagong on Saturday.
Following this Dilip Vengsarkar, the chairman of the national selection committee, spoke to his colleagues over the telephone and it was decided that Munaf would return to India immediately and be replaced by Ishant.
It is understood that the team management specifically requested the selection committee to send Ishant to Bangladesh.
This is quite common if the batsman's back foot is raised so that only his toe is on the ground.
The wicket-keeper must allow the ball to pass the stumps before taking it, unless it has touched either bat or batsman first.
"The umpires called stumps" means that the umpires have declared play over for the day.
Information from its description page there is shown below.
You can help .
Bopara made his first-class debut for Essex in May 2002.
In July, he was selected in England's 30-man provisional squad for the 2006 Champions Trophy .
He was select for the third edition of World T20 in Caribbean.
Bopara finished 43 not out.
He could not continue his good form, making just 11 in the next match.
He scored an unbeaten 201 runs off 138 balls, including 18 fours and 10 sixes.
He made 23 in the next match, but did not bowl in either matches.
He made 30 in the final match of the series, leaving him with over 100 runs in the matches he played in.
England won the match by 20 runs.
In the third match he made 60, although England lost the game by 16 runs.
In the final match of the series he took figures of 1-42 as well as contributing 24 runs with the bat, although England again lost, this time by six wickets.
In the first innings he scored his maiden Test century with 104 off 143 balls before being caught.
Bopara played well in England's opening game of the T20 World Cup, hitting 46 against the Netherlands.
This meant that England progress no further in the competition despite being on home soil.
Australians Mitchell Johnson and Ricky Ponting stated to local media that during the upcoming 2009 Ashes series they were going to target Bopara in particular.
Bangladesh and Pakistan Trott kept his Test place after his impressive debut, and Bopara saw Michael Carberry and Eoin Morgan make their Tests debuts in the away and home series against Bangladesh respectively, with Bopara making neither squad.
His convincing performance lead to him being selected in the two match T20 series against Pakistan.
England won both matches, but Bopara had little impact, making scores of 11 and 12.
England won the next game, although Bopara only made 16 runs.
Bopara returned to play against South Africa in place of the dropped Paul Collingwood .
England restricted South Africa to 165 and Bopara was named the man of the match .
England lost he next match by two wickets against Bangladesh, with Bopara scoring 16 runs.
Here, England were thrashed by ten wickets as Sri Lanka's openers made light work of England's target.
Bopara scored 31 when he batted in the first innings.
He kept his place for the next match, this time performing better with an unbeaten 44 as England went on to win the series 4-0 and become the best Test Team in the World.
He made 24 in the his first game of the series and followed his up with 40 in the next match.
After hitting 50 in the first match, he followed this up with 58 in the second match of the series, as England won by 20 runs.
Despite losing his place in the test side, Bopara continued to play in the One Day and Twenty20 sides.
In the only T20 International between the two sides, Bopara made 59 and helped England win the game.
Following his impressive form in limited overs cricket, Bopara was selected to play for the Test team in the opening Test against South Africa.
Bopara was replaced by James Taylor for the second Test.
However, he continued to struggle with the bat, making 16 runs in the next two matches.
Bopara continues to be used to bowl overs, as he continued to be economical and pick up occasional wickets.
Bopara was left out of the T20 team that toured India in 2013.
This was largely due to Bopara's poor form with the bat.
Bopara was again overlooked for the T20 series against New Zealand.
He made an unbeaten 46 against Australia to help guide England to victory.
In the second game he was again unbeaten, making 33 and also bowled six overs.
England convincingly beat South Africa in the semi final, with Bopara not being required to bat.
In July and August the team played four Tests in England .
India won the series 2–1.
Ishant Sharma plays for Sunrisers Hyderabad in Indian Premier League.
The captain sets where the fielders will stand, in consultation with the bowler and sometimes other senior players.
Along with the increased number of Powerplay overs from 15 to 20, to enable greater tactical flexibility, the decision of when to The initial fielding restrictions, termed Powerplay 1, apply during the first 10 overs of each innings.
The decision of when to take the batting/bowling powerplay rests the captains of the respective sides.
The captain decides when each bowler will bowl.
If the regular bowlers are not achieving the desired results, the captain may decide to use non-regular bowlers to attempt to unsettle the batsmen.
The captain may also change the bowlers around to introduce variation, and to prevent the batsmen getting "set".
In limited overs cricket the captain additionally has to make certain that bowlers bowl no more than their allotted maximum number of overs, and that experienced bowlers are available at the end of the batting side's innings, when the batsmen are usually looking to take risks to attack and score quickly.
When the team bats, the captain decides the batting order .
In professional cricket the captain usually changes the established batting order only for exceptional reasons, because batsmen tend to specialize in batting at certain positions.
However, in certain circumstances it may be in the team's interest to change the batting order.
If the night watchman does not get out before the end of play then the specialist batsman will have been protected, and will not need to bat until the following day when conditions are likely to have improved.
Permission is usually given if the batsman has become injured during the course of the match, but if the batsman was carrying the injury at the start of the match then the captain may refuse.
For instance, he or she may decide when the team is to practice, and for how long.
In professional cricket the captain often has some say in who will form the squad from which teams are selected, and may also decide how young up-and-coming players are to be encouraged and improved, and how members of the squad who are not regularly selected for first-team matches are to gain match practice to be kept match-fit.
This is particularly useful when the captain is forced to leave the field of play during fielding, due to injury or illness .
He was then reinstated as the reserve wicketkeeper for the tour to the West Indies .
At the start of the 2006–07 season, Karthik scored 11 and 85 for India Red in the Challenger Trophy.
Karthik had opened the batting for Tamil Nadu in the previous season in the Ranji Trophy, as well as for South Zone in the Duleep Trophy.
India went on to win by 20 runs, giving Karthik his first man of the match award.
Karthik played in four matches, scoring 15 runs at 51.00 and keeping wicket in two of the matches.
In the First Test at Lord’s, Karthik made 60 in the second innings before India fell to 9/282 in pursuit of 380 when rain ended the match early.
Injury to Murli Vijay meant that India had their third different opening combination of the series.
Sri Lanka had another poor start until Mathews and Perea joined forces and took Sri Lanka from 109/5 to 248.
Ashwin got the wicket of Perera after he was caught trying to reverse sweep which exposed the tail and led to India winning in the last session on the final day.
This victory marked India's 1st victory in Sri Lanka since 1993 and Kohli's 1st series victory as skipper.
Ashwin was named man of the series.
He is known to work hard on the field but not get the wickets he seemingly deserves.
When others around him were falling like ninepins, Ishant carried on gamely, day after day, showing the same passion for bowling in the last 20 minutes of the day as he did in the first 20.
Ishant has played 43 Tests at an average of 36.8.
It's time Indian cricket started looking at Ishant that way, expecting results from him today instead of tomorrow.
Bowling averages somehow never get as much media- and mind-space as batting averages do.
Ishant's strike rate of 64.8 is also below par.
This means he needs to bowl nearly 11 overs to get one wicket.
"Unlucky Ishant Sharma" has become his brandname in Indian cricket today.
But there is no such thing as an unlucky batsman or an unlucky bowler.
Of course, this is not the first time these aspects of Ishant's bowling have been pointed out, but it is sad to see that these two critical issues have remained largely unaddressed.
All fast bowlers will tell you that the head falling away sideways at the time of delivery kills much of the speed, especially when the ball is pitched up.
When he tries to get the ball into that full-length area, it just does not respond.
It reacts better when it's pitched shorter, which is why he feels compelled to bowl that length.
But when the ball is short you don't find the edges, the leg-befores and the bowleds, as often.
And that is what makes Ishant an "unlucky" bowler in Indian cricket.
The tour consisted of three Test matches and five One Day Internationals .
Kumar plays for Uttar Pradesh in domestic cricket.
He has also played for Central Zone in the Duleep Trophy .
In the 2nd semi-final against North Zone, Kumar took one wicket with an economy rate of 3.03.
The Add this page to your book link will have changed into Add this category to your book.
Click on this new link, and all the articles in that category will be added to your book.
Relevant categories may be found at the very bottom of Wikipedia articles.
Categories can also be added by hovering category links.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libellous .
If such material is repeatedly inserted, or if you have other concerns, please report the issue to this noticeboard .
If you are connected to one of the subjects of this article and need help, please see this page .
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!==Indian
However, after some confusion in the board it was decided that Sharma would not be sent to South Africa after all.
When India returned from that tour the Board of Control for Cricket in India did not take the Munaf issue lightly.
The board then raised concerns that Munaf had gone into the final Test carrying an injury and that this might have impacted India's chances.
"According to his report Gloster said they had taken all the fitness tests necessary and felt that he was totally fit.
I think Rahul  and the other members of the team management must also have been convinced of Munaf's fitness before taking him in the eleven," Shah had told Cricinfo back then.
"Certain injuries are such that the physio may believe that the player will recover any time.
Whether the player has that same confidence or not is something else.
The players should be honest with themselves, there's no point blaming the physio."Most
"Then we were surprised, when Dr Anant Joshi conducted tests, and Munaf complained about pain.
The player himself should be honest enough about his own fitness.
The last 5% has to come from the player.
The doctor cannot say how much pain you are experiencing.
An injury to Sanjay Manjrekar gives Dravid his India cap at Lord's five years after his first-class debut.
But Dravid, adjudged the Man of the Match, restores India's pride.
Dravid becomes the third Indian after Vijay Hazare and Sunil Gavaskar to achieve the feat.
Dravid tops the Kent averages with 1,039 runs at 49.48.
No Indian fan can ever forget Kolkata in 2001 .
Warne is creamed for 41 runs in 51 balls.
Despite centuries from Laxman and Sehwag, India are forced to follow-on after four top-order centuries see New Zealand run away to 630.
However, India manage to draw the game.
Bring on the Aussies The Dravid and Laxman show hits the road again in the second Test against Australia.
He also hiwever, once the pair were out the England innings fell apart and India went on to lift the trophy.
England went on to win the match but lose the series.
In the T20 series he made an unbeaten 30 in the first game, but was expensive with the ball.
England went on to lose the match.
Although Bopara never played in the Ashes series, he played in the two T20 Internationals.
In the first match, which England lost, he scored 45 and participated in an impressive partnership with Joe Root.
Bopara played in the second match which England won to tie the series.
Throughout the series, Bopara was used to finish off the innings by accelerating towards the end.
Bopara also bowled in long spells instead of the occasional spell, making him an important member of the team.
Bopara joined up with the England squad for the tour of Australia for the limited overs series, after the Test team had already lost 5-0.
He also took his first wicket of the tour in the second match.
He was stumped on the final match when on 25.He played in all three of the T20 games, scoring 65 from 27 balls in the first match although England lost by 13 runs.
In the next two games he only managed 10 runs as England lost the series 3-0.
In the T20 series, Bopara hit 42 in the first game, although England went on to lose.
He made 14 in England's score of 152 in the second, although it ended in another defeat.
In the 2014 T20 World Cup, Bopara scored an unbeaten 24 against New Zealand, although England lost the match.
He made 11 not out against Sri Lanka and helped finish the game of with Alex Hales to keep England's hopes of qualification alive.
He made 31 in the defeat to South Africa, and took figures of 0-13 in his two overs.
Bopara was poor in his first three matches against Sri Lanka.
He managed just 10 runs and took just one wicket.
He made 51 in the fourth match of the series but could not prevent an England defeat, before being dismissed for 17 in the final match as England again lost, and also lost the series 3-2.
He made two fifties in the first two matches of the tour, hitting 65 in the first match and 51 in the second.
Despite this, England lost both games.
Bopara was dropped for the final game of tour, but England lost this match to lose the series 5-2.
He scored seven against Australia as England again lost, and made four as England beat India to reach the final.
Bopara did not play in the World Cup until he final game against Afghanistan, by which point England had already been eliminated from the competition.
He picked up figures of 2-31 and was not needed to bat as England won by nine wickets.
In the first two Tests, he managed only 39 in two innings, passing single figures only once.
Karthik was retained for the Test tour of Australia as an opener, while Gambhir was ruled out after suffering an injury.
However, he did not play in the first two Tests, Back on the fringes Dinesh Karthik during the 2007–08 Commonwealth Bank Series .
Upon his return to India, Karthik played in six one-dayers for Tamil Nadu and South Zone, reaching 40 twice in six innings.
He had an unsuccessful campaign, accumulating only 70 runs at 11.66.
Karthik then scored 123 and 113 in consecutive matches against Baroda and Railways before ending his Ranji Torphy campaign with 72 against Uttar Pradesh in the return match.
Karthik ended with 1026 runs at 64.12 for the season, including five centuries and two fifties.
He then scored an unbeaten 117 against Kerala in the one-day tournament and was selected for the tour of New Zealand as the reserve wicket-keeper.
In the 2009 Indian Premier League held in South Africa, Karthik played in each of Delhi's 15 matches, scoring 288 runs at 36.00, passing 40 on three occasions and making 17 dismissals.
Delhi topped the pool stage of the tournament, but Karthik made only nine in the semi-final as Delhi were defeated by six wickets by the Deccan Chargers .
Karthik played in six Ranji Trophy matches for Tamil Nadu as captain, and he had an uneven run of scoring with the bat.
Karthik ended the season with 443 runs at 55.37.
However, Karthik was not to lead Tamil Nadu into the knockout stages of the competition.
Karthik kept wickets in the next two matches, scoring 32 and 19 and remaining unbeaten in both instances, helping to guide India to the target in successful runchases.
Karthik played as an opener along Gambhir in the last two of the round-robin matches after Sehwag was rested.
Karthik made 48 and 34 in quick time as India won both matches but was dropped for the final, which was lost.
Karthik then played in the First Test at Chittagong after Dhoni was forced to withdraw due to injury.
Karthik was then displaced as the reserve gloveman for the two-Test home series against South Africa; Wriddhiman Saha was called up to be Dhoni's deputy.
He ended the tournament with 510 runs and was within the top 10 run scorers of the tournament.
He scored back to back centuries in the two warm up games sealing his place in the team for the tournament.
He scored an unbeaten 51 in India's group match against the West Indies.
Our role is to host some of the largest collaboratively edited reference Projects in the world, which can be found here .
This means that we generally do not monitor or edit the content of the Project websites, and we do not take any responsibility for this content.
Similarly, we do not endorse any opinions expressed via our services, and we do not represent or guarantee the truthfulness, accuracy, or reliability of any submitted community content.
Instead, we simply provide access to the content that your fellow users have contributed and edited.
You are responsible for your own actions: You are legally responsible for your edits and contributions on Wikimedia Projects, so for your own protection you should exercise caution and avoid contributing any content that may result in criminal or civil liability under any applicable laws.
For clarity, applicable law includes at least the laws of the United States of America.
Although we may not agree with such actions, we warn editors and contributors that authorities may seek to apply other country laws to you, including local laws where you live or where you view or edit content.
Because our services are used by people all over the world, personal information that we collect may be stored and processed in the United States of America or any other country in which we or our agents maintain facilities.
By using our services, you consent to any such transfer of information outside your country.
We therefore ask that you use common sense and proper judgment when using our services.
It should not be taken as professional advice.
We happily welcome your participation in this community.
We encourage you to be civil and polite in your interactions with others in the community, to act in good faith, and to make edits and contributions aimed at furthering the mission of the shared Project.
Certain activities, whether legal or illegal, may be harmful to other users and violate our rules, and some activities may also subject you to liability.
Therefore, for your own protection and for that of other users, you may not engage in such activities on our sites.
These activities include:Harassing and Abusing Others Engaging in harassment, threats, stalking, spamming, or vandalism; and Transmitting chain mail, junk mail, or spam to other users.
Engaging in False Statements, Impersonation, or Fraud Intentionally or knowingly posting content that constitutes libel or defamation;With the intent to deceive, posting content that is false or inaccurate;Attempting to impersonate another user or individual, misrepresenting your affiliation with any individual or entity, or using the username of another user with the intent to deceive; and Engaging in fraud.
As part of these obligations, you must disclose your employer, client, and affiliation with respect to any contribution for which you receive, or expect to receive, compensation.
You are responsible for safeguarding your own password and should never disclose it to any third party.
Licensing of Content To grow the commons of free knowledge and free culture, all users contributing to the Projects are required to grant broad permissions to the general public to re-distribute and re-use their contributions freely, so long as that use is properly attributed and the same freedom to re-use and re-distribute is granted to any derivative works.
Public domain content: Content that is in the public domain is welcome!
It is important however that you confirm the public domain status of the content under the law of the United States of America as well as the laws of any other countries as required by the specific Project edition.
When you contribute content that is in the public domain, you warrant that the material is actually in the public domain, and you agree to label it appropriately.
Re-use: Re-use of content that we host is welcome, though exceptions exist for content contributed under "fair use" or similar exemptions under copyright law.
Users agree to indicate these additional attribution requirements clearly.
Where there are such visible notations, re-users should preserve them.
With both text content and non-text media, you agree to clearly indicate that the original work has been modified.
However, we also recognize that not every takedown notice is valid or in good faith.
Management of Websites The community has the primary role in creating and enforcing policies applying to the different Project editions.
In an unusual case, the need may arise, or the community may ask us, to address an especially problematic user because of significant Project disturbance or dangerous behavior.
In the interests of our users and the Projects, in the extreme circumstance that any individual has had his or her account or access blocked under this provision, he or she is prohibited from creating or using another account on or seeking access to the same Project, unless we provide explicit permission.
Though we hope you will stay and continue to contribute to the Projects, you can stop using our services any time.
In certain  to terminate part or all of our services, terminate these Term and this is followed by Team B's second innings.
The winning team is the one that scores more runs in their two innings.
A team's innings ends in one of the following ways: The team is "all out".
The team's captain declares the innings closed, usually because they believe they have enough runs.
A declaration before the innings starts is called an innings forfeiture.
The team batting fourth score the required number of runs to win.
The prescribed time for the match expires.
This is called enforcing the follow on .
During the 2nd test between England and New Zealand at Headingley, Leeds, 24–28 May 2013, England batted first after the first day was lost because of rain.
New Zealand, batting second, scored 180 runs fewer than England, meaning England could have enforced the follow on, though chose not to.
This is similar to four-day first class cricket, where the follow on can be enforced if the difference is 150 runs or fewer.
The roughened, softer surface of an old ball can be more conducive to spin bowlers, or those using reverse swing .
The captain may delay the decision to take the new ball if he wishes to continue with his spinners .
A Test match may end in one of six results :All four innings are complete.
The team batting fourth are all out before overtaking the other team, usually before matching the other team's score.
The team batting in the fourth innings overtakes the opposing team's run total.
The third innings concludes with the team that batted twice still trailing the team that batted once.
This usually occurs at the end of the last day of the match.
The match is abandoned because the ground is declared unfit for play.
The number of matches in Test series has varied from one to seven.
Up until the early 1990s,  Test series between international teams were organised between the two national cricket organisations with umpires provided by the home team.
Early international cricket was disrupted by the French Revolution and the American Civil War .
The Australian Aborigines team became the first organised overseas cricketers to tour England in 1868 .
Grace's tour fell through and it was Lillywhite's team that toured New Zealand and Australia in 1876–77.
The first match was won by Australia, by 45 runs, and the second by England.
Groping with the demons in the pitch, he is the only Indian batsman to bat more than 100 deliveries and is left stranded on 31.
Pakistan run into the wall, again He lights up Eden Gardens again, with centuries in both innings  in the second sets up an Indian win.
"It's time for us to look ahead," Kiran More, chairman of the selection panel, declared as the curtains came down on the captaincy saga of Ganguly.
He follows up with another century in the next Test.
Without Dravid's two masterful efforts the result would probably have been reversed.
Ousted by Bangladesh One of the toughest defeats of his career, as India go down by five wickets against Bangladesh in the World Cup.
Under Dravid, India tour England and win their first Test series in England since 1986, albeit 1-0.
Just one fifty in six innings is average by any standards, more so if your standards are as high Dravid's.
Under his captaincy India win eight Tests, including series wins in the West Indies, Bangladesh and England.
But then India exit the 2007 World Cup in the first round and lose the NatWest series to England 4-3.
Dravid scores three centuries in seven innings versus Sri Lanka and Bangladesh,  including two in consecutive Tests against Sri Lanka in November 2009.
He ends the South Africa series with an average of just 20.
Two of those hundreds are as openers, and in the fourth Test at The Oval he becomes only the third Indian to carry his bat, scoring an unbeaten 146 out of 300.
Disappointment in Australia In eight innings in Australia, Dravid manages only 194 runs at an average of 24.25.
It's to be his last Test series.
Takes three wickets and the opposition rate him the fastest bowler they've faced in Australia.
Takes his maiden one-day five-wicket haul against the Indians in Adelaide on Australia Day. Storms New Zealand with 18 wickets in three Tests in his first away series.
Returns for the one-day tri-series but injures his elbow and hence, misses the historic tour of India.
Lee has an outstanding World Cup in South Africa and finishes second in the overall wicket charts with 22 scalps at 17.90.
Carries his form to the West Indies where he finishes with 17 wickets.
In the absence of Glenn McGrath and Shane Warne, Lee has to carry the bowling attack but finds the going tough against India.
Returning from an abdominal injury, he takes eight wickets in two Tests but at an expensive 59.50 per wicket.
Suffers an ankle injury and misses the tour of Sri Lanka.
The return of Michael Kasprowicz puts enormous pre first to be held over five matches: Shaw, writing in 1901, considered the side to be "the best ever to have left England.
".The first Test series not to involve Australia occurred in 1888–89, as an understrength England side toured South Africa.
He played for Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League in 2012 and 2013 and currently in Chennai Super Kings .
His family hails from Almora in Uttarakhand.
His family presently reside at Sadiq Nagar, New Delhi.
Ceylon, as the country was known before 1972, played its first first-class match under that name against Marylebone Cricket Club at Nomads Ground, Victoria Park, Colombo in 1926–27, losing by an innings .
The Ceylonese side competed against Madras in the M. J. Gopalan Trophy games from the 1950s, through the change of name to Sri Lanka, well into the 1970s.
Sri Lanka were later awarded Test cricket status in 1981, by the International Cricket Council .
In the first quarter finals, Sri Lanka played with England, where Sanath devastated the English players with his fast 82 runs just off 44 balls.
Sri Lanka came into bat first, but their first three wickets were taken very early.
But then, Aravinda and Roshan Mahanama paced the innings with their half-centuries.
Skipper Arjuna and Hashan Tillakaratne also played valuable innings.
But the Sri Lankan bowling was so good, Navjot Singh Sidhu and skipper Mohammad Azharuddin got out very early.
When India was 120/8, the Indian fans got aggressive, throwing bottles and other materials into the ground, where the match could not be continued further.
Sri Lanka went on to their first finals in World Cup history.
Before the match, former 1992 Cricket World Cup winning captain Imran Khan talked with Sri Lankan captain Ranatunga, stating that if they won the toss, to choose batting first.
This was because the ground was more favorable to batting first and bowling under lights.
In the toss however, Ranatunga won the match, but chose to field first.
Sri Lanka's game style over the course of the series revolutionised One Day International Cricket, and was characterised by the highly aggressive batting of their openers Sanath Jayasuriya and Romesh Kaluwitharana in the first fifteen overs of the innings to take advantage of the fielding restrictions imposed during this period.
Cricket World Cup hosted by England and Netherlands, where Sri Lanka came as defending champions.
Sri Lanka played their first group match with England, where they only scored 204 bowled out in 48.2 overs.
In the second group match, against South Africa, they played badly.
By chasing 199 runs of South Africa, Sri Lanka only scored 110 runs, only Mahanama scored 36 runs.
Zimbabwe only scored 197/9 and Sri Lanka scored 198/6.
Sri Lanka played only 216/10, and India won by 157 runs.
With this loss, Sri Lanka eliminated from the World Cup.
Being the champions in last World Cup, this world cup campaign was really disappointed.
Their last match was against Kenyans, where Sri Lanka won the match by 45 runs.
Cricket World Cup was moved to the African continent, where South Africa, Zimbabwe and Kenya hosted the tournament.
Sanath Jayasuriya lead the team.
The first match was against New Zealand, where Blackcaps captain Stephen Fleming won the toss and sent Sri Lanka in to bat first.
Skipper Jayasuriya dominated the Blackcaps bowling attack by scoring 120 runs.
The final score at the end of the innings was 272/7.
Scott Styris overpassed Jayasuriya's batting by his 141 runs, but New Zealand all out for 217 in the total.
Sri Lanka won by 47 runs and Jayasuriya was named man of the match.
With this feat, Vaas became the third of only four players to have achieved two hat tricks.
Bangladesh poorly scored 124/10.
They lost the match to underdog Kenyans for the first time.
Sri Lanka came to bat, only Aravinda scored 41 runs.
All the others scored less than 30.
Last group match was against South Africa, Sri Lanka batted first and scored 268/9.
South Africa was at 229/6 when rain came.
Finally Sri Lanka reached top of the Pool B, and selected for the quarter finals.
In the quarter finals, they lost to Australia and India, only won over Zimbabwe.
This result gave them fourth place in standings, where Kenya recorded first semi-final occasion in the history.
Sri Lanka's semi-final was against Australia.
This is the match in which Adam Gilchrist famously "walked" despite being given not out.
The 12 teams were grouped into four groups, where Sri Lanka in group B. India, Bangladesh and Bermuda played with Sri Lanka in group matches.
Bermuda's World Cup debut became the second-heaviest defeat at the World Cup, 40 runs worse than Scotland's defeat the day before.
After Sri Lanka won the toss and batted, they scored 321/6 in 50 overs while skipper Jayawardene, Kumar Sangakkara and Chamara Silva all collected half-centuries.
Kevin Hurdle took two wickets for Bermuda, but his second over lasted 14 balls due to no-balls and wides.
Bermuda fell to 20 for four after Lasith Malinga had taken three wickets in three overs, ending with bowling figures of three for 10.
Farveez Maharoof removed both before Murali had Dwayne Leverock lbw to end the innings for 78, Bermuda's lowest total ever in One-day Internationals.
Sri Lanka won the match by 243 runs.
Next match for Sri Lanka was against Bangladesh, who won the match against India and was in good performance before coming to this match.
Indeed, it was only due to the rain during Bangladesh' innings and the consequently readjusted target that the margin of victory was smaller; Bangladesh were bowled out for 112, with all the Sri Lankan bowlers except Jayasuriya taking wickets, but Jayasuriya had already contributed with seven sixes in his 24th One-day International century as Sri Lanka totalled 318 for four.
Spinners Mohammad Rafique and Abdur Razzak were the only ones to keep the economy rate below five an over, while for Sri Lanka only Russel Arnold cost more than five an over.
Last group match was against the neighbors-India, who was at brink of eliminating from the tournament.
So the match was highly valuable to Indians than Lankans.
Tharanga, however, batted through nearly two thirds of the match for his 64, and none of the bowlers managed to keep the run rate below four as Sri Lanka made it to 254 for six, due to poor cricket from India.
Tendulkar followed in the next over, bowled by Dilhara Fernando for his second duck of the tournament, but Virender Sehwag and skipper Rahul Dravid made it through the next ten overs, before the "turning point" arrived when Murali had Sehwag caught at first slip in his third over; the next six overs yielded only 14 runs and two more wickets, after Dhoni went lbw to Murali, and India needed 141 runs off 22 overs.
India eliminated and Sri Lanka through to Super 8s.
Super 8s has gone pretty well for Sri Lankans, with their performances, only lost to South Africa and Australia.
Sri Lanka won the toss and elected to bat, and lost their first five wickets for 98, with Charl Langeveldt taking two in his first spell.
Then Lasith Malinga struck and show begun.
With this feat, Lasith Malinga became the only bowler to get four consecutive wickets in four balls in any form of the game.
Next match was against the hosts-West Indies.
Jayasuriya and Jayawardene added 183 for the third wicket, before Dilshan came in and took 39 off 22 deliveries as the final eleven overs yielded 84 runs.
In reply, West Indies needed 170 off 94 when Ramnaresh Sarwan was stumped off Jayasuriya; they only got 56 of those, and were bowled out for 190, with four batsmen out in single figures.
Sri Lanka won the match by huge 113 runs.
England then lost two more wickets for seven runs to Dilhara Fernando, and required 103 off 16.3 overs with four wickets in hand.
However, Fernando returned for the last over, and bowled Bopara off the last ball giving Sri Lanka victory.
Sri Lanka won two of last three matches -won against New Zealand and Ireland, lost to Australia, secured their place to semi-finals.
In the semi, Sri Lanka met New Zealand again, where Sri Lanka scored 289/7 courtesy of century by skipper Jayawardena.
New Zealand only scored 208 runs and eliminated from the World Cup.
Sri Lanka selected for their second final in World Cups, against same opponent as in 1996-Australians.
Aussie skipper Ricky Ponting won the toss and elected to bat.
However, the start of play was delayed due to rain, and the match was reduced to 38 overs per side.
While Sri Lankan batsmen Sangakkara and Jayasuriya were adding 116 for the second wicket, the contest was alive, but after the pair got out, Sri Lanka's chances slowly diminished.
Further rain forced the reduction of Sri Lanka's innings to just 36 overs, with the target revised to 269.
At the end of the 33rd over, with Sri Lanka still trailing the adjusted D/L target by 37 runs, the umpires suspended the game due to bad light.
With Sri Lanka needing 61 runs from 18 deliveries, Jayawardene agreed there was no need to return the following day, and instructed his team to resume batting, with Ponting agreeing to play only spinners.
The umpires later apologised for their error: the match should have ended then with Australia winning by 37 runs.
Kenya won the toss and gave Lankans to bat first.
Tharanga and Jayasuriya started the innings, but Tharanga was bowled by Thomas Odoyo .
Then Sangakkara joined Jayasuriya.
The show time begun then, where Jayasuriya and Jayawardena scored unfaithfully for all the bowlers.
Sri Lanka was 215/6 in 18 overs, when Jehan Mubarak came to the crease.
He scored an unbelievable sixes down the ground to Nehemiah Odhiambo and Peter Ongondo .
The strike rate of this innings was 353.84.
Sri Lanka finished with 260/6, which recorded highest T20 total in any top-level Twenty20 match .
Kenyans came to bat with chasing the huge task.
Kenya never recovered, and were reduced to just 88 runs in the 20th over as Sri Lanka dismissed their batsmen cheaply.
Next group match was with Blackcaps, where they scored 164/7.
Jayasuriya became the Man-of-the-Match in both these matches.
The crucial match to qualify for the semi-finals was with Australians and Sri Lanka only scored 101 against Aussie pacers.
Australia won the match by 10 wickets and Sri Lanka eliminated from the tournament.
The second T20 tournament was given England to host.
Kumar Sangakkara lead the Sri Lankan team in the tournament.
Within Group C, they played with West Indies and Australia.
Next match was with West Indies, who were in poor performance in the T20 cricket.
Sri Lanka batted first scored 192/5 courtesy of blistering 81 runs from Jayasuriya.
He played the shot in almost every match in this series, which earned him good runs.
West Indies only scored 177/5 in 20 overs and Sri Lanka through to the Super 8s.
Against Pakistan, Sri Lanka won the match by 19 runs.
Dilshan scored 46 runs with some innovative Dilscoops.
Dilshan played another magnificent 48 runs and Mendis took 3/9 in the bowling.
The semi-final was against West Indies for the second time in the tournament, where Sri Lanka scored 158/5 in their 20 overs.
Dilshan scored another blistering knock with 96 unbeaten runs.
West Indies scored just 101 all out in their 20 overs.
Sri Lanka easily moved to their first T20 International final.
However, Mahela ended the tournament as highest run scorer with 302 runs.
The first over was bowled by Mohammad Amir .
This brought in Mathews, who along with Sangakkara took the score from 70/6 to 138/6, with 17 runs being scored off the last over bowled by Mohammad Amir.
Sri Lanka finished on 138/6 from 20 overs.
Pakistan started off well with openers Kamran Akmal and Shahzaib Hasan adding 48 run for the 1st wicket, before Kamran Akmal was stumped by Sangakkara by the first delivery of Jayasuriya.
Pakistan reached the target in 18.4 overs, with Shahid Afridi, who hit the winning runs, earning Man of the Match while Tillakaratne Dilshan was declared Man of the Series for his 317 runs at an average of 63.40.
The first match was with New Zealand, where Sri Lanka scored only 135/6 with 81 of Mahela.
In chasing, New Zealand were shaky in the start, but Jesse Ryder recovered the match to their way with 27 ball 42 runs.
He reach hundred with 64 balls.
With this Sri Lanka won the match by 14 in D/L method.
In this match, Mahela came very close to score his second consecutive century but overs ended when he was not out in 98.
Sri Lanka batted first, but couldn't reach even 150 mark.
They scored 128 runs only.
Sri Lankan hopes came fade with this performance, where Kevin Pietersen  attacked Sri Lankan bowling line-up.
India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka jointly hosted the 10th edition of Cricket World Cup .
In group A, Sri Lanka played with Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Canada and Kenya.
They started off their tournament against minnows Canada.
They won the toss and elected to bat first.
Jayawardene reached his century but fell immediately afterwards.
The Canadian chase went nowhere, with Thisara Perera and Nuwan Kulasekara getting three wickets quickly.
Big-hitter Rizwan Cheema took 37, including two huge sixes off spinner Murali, but the latter ultimately got his wicket as Canada fell to 122 all out.
Sri Lanka won the match by 210 runs.
Next match was with Pakistani team, which gave Lankans their first World Cup defeat in home soil.
Pakistan captain Shahid Afridi won the toss and decided to bat first against Sri Lanka, one of the pre-tournament favorites.
This was the turning point of the match, as three more wickets, including that of Dilshan fell soon after to leave Sri Lanka tottering at 96/4.
Silva struggled to time the ball early in his innings, being 16 off 49 balls at one point, but he then accelerated rapidly to reach his half-century, but Afridi returned to remove dangerous looking Angelo Mathews.
Sri Lanka comfortably chased the target of 146b by giving one wicket only.
Sri Lanka against Australia match was abandoned due to heavy rain.
With their victory over Zimbabwe, Sri Lanka became the first team to qualify for the Quarter Finals of the tournament.
Skipper Sangakkara scored 111 runs and Lankans managed to get 265/9.
Blackcaps were struggled from the very first ball, where they were all out for 153.
In the quarter finals, Sri Lankan counterpart was England.
England total of 229 was easily reached by Dilshan and Tharanga.
Sri Lanka qualified easily for the semi-finals.
This was the last match Murali played on Sri Lankan soil.
Zaheer began with three consecutive maidens and the wicket of Tharanga, conceding only six runs in his five-over spell.
Jayawardene came to the crease when Sri Lanka were 60/2 in the 17th over.
Sangakkara and Mahela went about the task of consolidating the innings, but eventually Sangakkara was caught behind by Dhoni at 48.
The Indians decided to review the decision and he was ultimately given out.
Helped by the hard-hitting of Kulasekara and Thisara, Sri Lanka scored 91 runs in the last 10 overs, including 63 in the batting powerplay  to take the score to 274/6.
Kohli and Gautam Gambhir started the recovery with some fluent stroke play and quick running between wickets, taking India to 114 before Kohli was caught-and-bowled by Dilshan for 35.
Kohli and Gambhir put together an 83-run partnership before Kohli's dismissal.
Dhoni came in after Kohli to bat at number five.
Gambhir and Dhoni added 109 for the fourth wicket with Gambhir scoring 97.
Following Gambhir's dismissal, 52 runs were required off 52 balls.
Dhoni finished on 91 not out from 79 deliveries.
This is the first World Twenty20 tournament held in an Asian country, the last three having been held in South Africa, England and the West Indies.
Sri Lanka was lead by Mahela Jayawarderna for the second time after 2007 World Twenty20.
All group matches were held in Hambantota .
The first match of the tournament was between the Hosts and Zimbabwe.
Zimbabwe won the toss and put Sri Lanka onto bat.
Zimbabwe came to the crease, but didn't took too long to dismissed to 100 runs on the board.
This is the best bowling figures in Twenty20 International history, that was previously also held by Mendis against Aussies.
Sri Lanka was not good at all, only scored 46/5, no any batsmen scored more than 15 runs.
However, both team qualified for the Super 8s.
Against New Zealand, the match was tied, where both teams scored 174.
However, Sri Lanka won the Super Over and won the match.
In the next two matches, Sri Lanka won very easily against West Indies and England.
The Sri Lankan third consecutive World T20 semi-final was against Pakistanis.
Sri Lanka scored 139/4, where Mahela paced the innings with his 42 runs.
While chasing, skipper Mohammad Hafeez scored 40 runs, all the other players were undone by Rangana Herath.
The 16 runs victory gave Sri Lankans to win their first T20 title, which was against West Indies.
Ajantha Mendis was the highest wicket-taker with 15 wickets.
As the runner-up of previous World T20 competition, Sri Lanka went Bangladesh under the captaincy of Dinesh Chandimal to this edition of World T20 .
In the group stage at Super 10 stage, they played with South Africa, New Zealand, England, and Netherlands.
In the first match, Sri Lanka played with South Africa.
Sri Lanka won the toss and elected to bat first.
Sri Lankan opener Kusal Perera reminded all sorts of aggressive shots by legendary Sanath Jayasuriya.
South Africans was not down as yet, where they progressively built the innings.
Kusal was the Man-of-the-Match.
The next match was against talented Netherlands, who show their powerful strokes against Ireland in this tournament.
But all those stroke play was undone by magnificent bowling by Mathews, Kulasekara, and Malinga.
Sri Lanka batted first and scored 189/4.
Mahela scored 89 runs.
England scored 190/4 in 19.2 and won the match.
Skipper Chandimal was out of play due to some injuries, so Lasith Malinga captained the match.
By batting first, Sri Lanka scored only 119 all out, Mahela scored 25 runs as the best batsman.
During the match, Anderson was injured and so New Zealand played with only 10 players in batting.
New Zealand started pretty well with Guptill and Kane Williamson .
Herath ball Guptill and he lunges forward to push to mid-on.
After this run-out, it wall all Herath. he stumped skipper McCullum, then caught Ross Taylor to lbw.
Next, Herath bowled James Neesham in first ball he faced.
He then captured Luke Ronchi for lbw, and New Zealand were never in the game.
With this win, Sri Lanka moved their fourth consecutive World T20 semi-finals.
The semi-finals was against defending World T20 champions- West Indies.
Malinga again lead the team.
But this time, Lankans were all over West Indies, where Sri Lanka scored 160/6.
In chasing, West Indies was 80/4 when rain came into play.
Rain and hail ended the match after 13.5 overs in the West Indies' innings.
Their par score was 107 runs according to the Duckworth–Lewis method.
So, Sri Lanka won by 27 runs in D/L method.
This World Cup belongs to them.
The match was lead by Malinga for third time, where he gave permanent T20I captaincy.
Sri Lanka and India had played each other over sixty times in the last seven years, with India winning the majority of the matches.
Despite this, statistically there had been little between the two teams during the tournament.
India, sent into bat by Sri Lanka after they won the toss, posted 130 runs in their 20 overs.
Virat Kohli top scored with 77, but Yuvraj Singh's 11 runs off 21 balls slowed the innings momentum in the final overs.
Kumar Sangakkara, playing his last Twenty20 international match, guided Sri Lanka home with an unbeaten 52 runs.
Sangakkara was named Player of the Match, while Kohli was named Player of the Tournament.
With this match, Mahela and Sanga retired from twenty20 internationals.
The words of Sammy became true at last.
The last edition of Cricket World Cup was hosted by Australia and New Zealand.
Sri Lanka was captained by Angelo Mathews .
Lahiru Thirimanne scored 65 runs, and finally Sri Lanka bowled out for 233, with 98 runs lost at the end.
The next match was against debut World Cup contestants- Afghanistan.
Following this, Afghanistan started losing wickets at regular intervals to the Sri Lankan pace bowlers before finally being bowled out for 232 in 49.4 overs.
Then in the sixth over, they lost the wicket of Sangakkara with the score at 18/3.
They slipped into further trouble when Dimuth Karunaratne was dismissed in the 12th over with the Sri Lankan total still at 51. Then the maestro Jayawardene came to the crease.
Bowls his heart out in the 2005 Ashes in England, taking 20 wickets in five games.
Nearly wins the Edgbaston Thriller with the bat.
Returns to top form against West Indies later that year, leading the wicket charts with 18 wickets at 20.94.
Takes his 200th Test wicket in the second match at Kingsmead.
Leads the bowling attack following the twin retirements of McGrath and Warne.
Leading wicket-taker in the two-Test series against Sri Lanka with 16 scalps.
The golden run continues in the West Indies where he's the leading wicket-taker again.
He returns for the one-dayers in England but suffers yet another injury setback.
There are fears that he may never bowl again.
Ryan Harris is his replacement.
The selectors are satisfied with his form and name him in the 2011 World Cup squad.
Australia lose by one wicket.
One defeat later, Australia are out of the World Cup. Lee ends up with 13 wickets in seven games, the highest haul among Australians.
He subsequently ends up playing seven matches in the tournament despite the injury.
While McGrath needed 249 matches to take 380, Lee has achieved it in his 219th match.
Not that the tourists had reason to be pleased.
Just that there was relief in the camp following the earlier desperation.
The home side is well ahead, but Australia will remain in the contest if they can dismiss the hosts quickly on the second morning.
We actually finished off alright, five wickets for only 311 in the end,
He recognised the "massive step up" in intensity but started to relax in his second spell.
He just stared at the batsman in disbelief.
Life at this level is tough.
Bowling at Sachin Tendulkar was harder, but more rewarding.
Siddle kept sprinting in without success until he picked up Tendulkar in his first over with the second new ball.
" Siddle said.
Gambhir took his eyes off the ball as he ducked, providing Siddle with his first scalp.
Brett Lee used to speak like that too.
The brand is set to produce men's casual wear clothing in 2015 and has tied up with Myntra and Shopper's Stop .
Kohli was signed up by sports agent Bunty Sajdeh of Cornerstone Sport and Entertainment after the 2008 Under-19 World Cup.
Sajdeh recalls, "I didn’t go after them after they became stars.
I was mighty impressed with his attitude and the way he was marshalling his team.
He had that spark.
The organisation aims at helping underprivileged kids and conducts events to raise funds for the charity.
Muralitharan was selected as the Wisden Leading Cricketer in the World in 2000 and in 2006.
On 15 November 2007, the Warne-Muralidaran Trophy was unveiled named after the two leading wicket-takers in Test cricket, Shane Warne and Muralitharan.
This trophy will be contested between Australia and Sri Lanka in all future Test series.
Australian musician Alston Koch provoked worldwide interest when he recorded the only official tribute song to Muralitharan.
The Muralitharan Song video was also released after he broke the world record.
On 10 January 2008, the Parliament of Sri Lanka felicitated Muttiah Muralitharan for his world record breaking feat of being the highest wicket taker in Test cricket.
The Central Provincial Council in Kandy has decided to rename the International Cricket Stadium in Pallekele after Muttiah Muralitharan.
Controversy of bowling action Throughout much of his international career, Muralitharan's action was suspected of contravening the laws of the game by the straightening of his bowling arm during delivery .
Biomechanical testing conducted on four occasions fueled debate as to whether his action was in fact illegal or actually an illusion created by his allegedly unique ability to generate extra movement both at the shoulder as well the wrist, which enables him to bowl the doosra without straightening the elbow.
It was an identical tally to that called by Hair on Boxing Day and  Emerson made his calls from the bowler's end while his partner stood silent.
The main difference was that several no-balls were for leg-breaks instead of the bowler's normal off-breaks.
The Sri Lankan team almost abandoned the match, but after instructions from the President of the Board of Control for Cricket in Sri Lanka, the game resumed.
Up to this point in his career  Muralitharan primarily bowled two types of deliveries, namely the off-break and the topspinner .
He had not yet mastered the doosra.
Third citation and testing Muralitharan continued bowling, taking his 500th Test wicket in the second Test against Australia in Kandy on 16 March 2004.
At the end of the series his doosra delivery was officially called into question by match referee Chris Broad .
This Law gave the umpires absolutely no discretion.
In 2000, the Laws were changed to put an allowable figure of straightening of 5° for spinners, 7.5° for medium pacers and 10° for fast bowlers in an attempt to more clearly define what was legal.
A laboratory kinematic analysis of 42 non-Test playing bowlers done by Ferdinands and Kersting  established that the 5° limit for slow and spin bowlers was particularly impractical.
Explaining why the maximum level of 15 degrees was arrived at, panel member Angus Fraser stated "That is the number which biomechanics says that it  becomes visible.
We found when the biceps reached the shoulder the amount of bend was around 165 degrees.
Very few bowlers can get to 180 degrees because the joint doesn't allow that.
University of South Australia study The original decision of disallowing the doosra bowling action was hailed widely as justifiable on account of being scientifically based.
The results showed that the average elbow flexation while bowling the 'doosra' delivery was 12.2 degrees, at an average of 53.75 mph .
Bowling with an arm brace In July 2004 Muralitharan was filmed in England, bowling with an arm brace on.
There is no way an arm can be bent, or flexed, when it is in this brace.
All three balls reacted in the same way as when bowled without the brace.
They were not bowled quite so fast because the weight of the brace restricts the speed of Muralitharan's shoulder rotation, but the spin was still there.
When studying the film at varying speeds, it still appeared as if he straightened his arm, even though the brace makes it impossible to do so.
His unique shoulder rotation and amazing wrist action seem to create the illusion that he straightens his arm.
I proved that it was possible to bowl the doosra without bending the arm."
Michael Slater and Ravi Shastri witnessed it all unfold.
Muralitharan once again showed he could bowl all his deliveries including the doosra with an arm brace that prevents any straightening of his elbow.
Orthopediatrician Dr Mandeep Dillon stated that Muralitharan's unusual ability to generate extra movement both at the shoulder as well the wrist enables him to bowl the doosra without straightening the elbow.
Dean Jones later admitted  to being wrong in his assessment of Murali when he witnessed first hand Murali bowling with an arm-brace on.
The key publications are listed below:Elliot, B.C., Alderson, J., Reid, S. and Foster, D. .
Bowling Report of Muttiah Muralitharan.
Nobody wants to talk when things go badly, but it is unfair to add more pressure to boys in their first weeks as Test players.
At the end of the first, debutant Peter Siddle spoke after picking up Sachin Tendulkar's wicket.
Nielsen's views are of particular interest at the moment.
Why are the bowlers straying so often?
Why are they so unsuccessful against the lower order?
Which is fine.
To an Australian cricketer nothing is better than wearing the baggy green for the first time and enjoying the occasion, without having to be grilled about issues they can't expand on.
Australia's bowling on the second day was generally wayward, apart from the superb Mitchell Johnson, and they again let India's lower order escape.
Dhoni and Sourav Ganguly batted well against tactics that were slow to change.
He is growing with each spell and it was confusing to see him not taking the new ball.
It's always hard to start against spin or reverse-swing.
Mentally, any batter has to get their head around that.
Starting or building an innings will be the hardest partCameron White "The wickets are pretty flat," White said.
"Brett hasn't played much cricket over the past little while.
With bowling, Brett will definitely improve.
In the country where he started his renaissance eight years ago he is looking unrecognisable.
Thirteen runs in three innings is an unfamiliar lean spell and over the next couple of weeks Hayden, who will be 37 on October 29, will know whether time is ticking too quickly.
White, the No. 7, will wait until he gets to the crease before forming his plan.
It's always hard to start against spin or reverse-swing,
"Mentally, any batter has to get their head around that.
Starting or building an innings will be the hardest part."He said the opening hour on the third day would be crucial.
The first session will dictate the rest of the game,
He became known during the South African under-19s tour to England in 2003 and in the 2003-04 domestic season, where he averaged over 72, two years after breaking into South Africa's Western Province side.
South Africa were more than 200 runs in arrears when they lost their seventh wicket in the first innings.
In the process, he and Dale Steyn  put on 180 and surpassed Graeme and Peter Pollock 's South African ninth wicket partnership record against Australia.
He also took his first test wicket, Michael Clarke during that tour in the 3rd test, and took one of the freakiest catches ever seen in the 2nd Twenty20 international against Australia in Brisbane.
Duminy played in the Indian Premier League in 2009 after the Mumbai Indians franchise acquired him for US$950,000.
He scored two half-centuries in the tournament.
Currently, he is playing for Delhi Daredevils .
He dismissed Angelo Mathews with the last ball of an over, then dismissed Nuwan Kulasekara and Tharindu Kaushal with the first two balls of the next over.
The Indian Under-19 cricket team represents the nation of India in cricket at Under-19 level.
The team is currently captained by Ricky Bhui and coached by former India cricketer Rahul Dravid .
The Indian team has won three Under-19 World Cups .
In 2000, they won it under the captaincy of Mohammad Kaif and in 2008, they won it under Virat Kohli 's leadership and in 2012 under the captaincy of Unmukt Chand .
Performances at Under-19 World Cups This article is part of WikiProject Cricket which aims to expand and organise information better in articles related to the sport of cricket .
Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libellous .
If such material is repeatedly inserted, or if you have other concerns, please report the issue to this noticeboard .
If you are connected to one of the subjects of this article and need help, please see this page .
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
The format was the same as the 2011 edition: 14 teams take part in the initial stages, divided into two groups of seven; the seven teams play each other once before the top four teams from each group qualify for the quarter-finals.
Australia and New Zealand had also bid for the tournament; if successful, they would have shared the hosting equally, leaving the location of the final still to be decided.
The extra time needed for the Asian bid had weakened its prospects, but when the time came to vote, Asia won the hosting rights by ten votes to three.
They have been hosted by England .
Australia/New Zealand were awarded the 2015 World Cup.
The first round of the tournament would consist of two groups of seven teams.
This ensured that every team would play at least six matches.
Ireland, who had been the best performing Associate nation since the last World Cup, won the tournament, beating Canada in the final.
The Netherlands and Kenya also qualified by virtue of finishing third and fourth respectively.
List of qualified teams The following 14 teams qualified for the final tournament.
Throughout the tournament, they have captured the imagination of the world with an attacking style of cricket.
The aggressive style has swept the nation up along the way, and raised hopes of beating Australia at their own approach in the final.
It was less than half of the 77 that has been New Zealand's average ten-over score throughout the whole tournament.
On the eve of this World Cup final, McCullum was asked about New Zealand's incessant attacking approach.
" McCullum replied.
"For us, we need to play like that, that's how we're going to beat teams on regular occasions.
We're not afraid of losing.
For us we think about what we can achieve.
That's not always going to work and there are going to be times when we come out on the wrong side of it.
New Zealand really gave themselves their greatest chance of lifting the World Cup.
To some degree, Australia just didn't let New Zealand play that way.
Mitchell Starc's swing up front required serious negotiation.
At no stage in this tournament had New Zealand batted first against an in-form attack.
In some ways, New Zealand would have been better off losing the toss.
They have chased so well through this campaign and seem to prefer knowing their goal from the outset.
McCullum had to bat first when he called correctly, had to back his men to set the game up from the front.
It was at once the right call and the wrong result.
He was consequently awarded the Man of the match .
Kumar was included in the playing eleven of the first T20I match against Pakistan at Bengaluru following Parvinder Awana 's poor showing in the previous series against England .
He has the highest score by an Indian number 10 on debut, 38.
Kumar made his debut on 22 February 2013 against Australia during 1st test of Australia Tour to India in 2013 .
He was given the test cap by Ishant Sharma .
Champions Trophy and Tri-Series Kumar was included in the "Team of the tournament" of the 2013 Champions Trophy .
He also had his 1st five wicket haul in his test career in the first innings of the same match.
Kumar had his second five wicket haul in the next match of the same series and got his third fifty in Test in the same match.
Despite India losing the series 1-3, he was named the Indian Player of the Series.
He scored 38 runs of 97 balls on his debut test match he achieved the following feats:This score of 38 is the highest by any Indian batsman coming at 10th position.
He surpassed Paras Mhambrey to achieve this feat.
He faced the most number of balls .
He was second player to do so, batting at number 9, after Peter Siddle.
On his Test debut, Nehra started out well, dismissing Marvan Atapattu early but then failed to pick up any more wickets.
He was also part of the Indian team 's run at the 2003 World Cup in South Africa.
His performance in the other matches in the World Cup were also noteworthy.
However inconsistency and successive back and ankle injuries have prevented him from cementing his place in the Indian team .
He was expensive giving away 65 runs during 8.4 wicketless overs.
After this, many thought Nehra's world cup was over.
Each wicket on the pitch consists of three wooden stumps placed vertically, in line with one another.
These are called the "popping"  crease, the bowling crease and two "return" creases.
The stumps are placed in line on the bowling creases and so these creases must be 22 yards .
When bowling the ball, the bowler's back foot in his "delivery stride" must land within the two return creases while at least some part of his front foot must land on or behind the popping crease.
".The importance of the popping crease to the batsman is that it marks the limit of his safe territory.
He can be dismissed stumped or run out  if the wicket is broken while he is "out of his ground.
A used red ball, Red balls are utilised in Test cricket and first-class cricket and some other forms of cricket .
NB Both balls are the same size.
The bat is made of wood .
Some batsmen wear additional padding inside their shirts and trousers such as thigh pads, arm pads, rib protectors and shoulder pads.
The scorers are directed by the hand signals of an umpire.
The scorers are required by the Laws of cricket to record all runs scored, wickets taken and overs bowled; in practice, they also note significant amounts of additional data relating to the game.
The innings  is the term used for the collective performance of the batting side.
Depending on the type of match being played, each team has one or two innings apiece.
The main aim of the bowler, supported by his fielders, is to dismiss the batsman.
A batsman when dismissed is said to be "out" and that means he must leave the field of play and be replaced by the next batsman on his team.
The last batsman, the one who has not been dismissed, is not allowed to continue alone as there must always be two batsmen "in".
This batsman is termed "not out.
In limited overs cricket, there might be two batsmen still "not out" when the last of the allotted overs has been bowled.
The bowler bowls the ball in sets of six deliveries  and each set of six balls is called an over .
This name came about because the umpire calls "Over!" when six balls have been bowled.
At this point, another bowler is deployed at the other end, and the fielding side changes ends while the batsmen do not.
The batsmen do not change ends and so the one who was non-striker is now the striker and vice versa.
The umpires also change positions so that the one who was at square leg now stands behind the wicket at the non-striker's end and vice versa.
A team consists of eleven players.
A well-balanced team usually has five or six specialist batsmen and four or five specialist bowlers.
A player who excels in both batting and bowling is known as an all-rounder .
True all-rounders are rare as most players focus on either batting or bowling skills.
Shoaib Akhtar of Pakistan holds the world record for delivering the fastest ball .
Some fast bowlers make use of the seam of the ball so that it "curves" or "swings" in flight.
The batsman has to be very wary of such deliveries as they are often "flighted" or spun so that the ball will not behave quite as he expects and he could be "trapped" into getting himself out.
In between the pacemen and the spinners are the "medium pacers" who rely on persistent accuracy to try and contain the rate of scoring and wear down the batsman's concentration.
All bowlers are classified according to their looks or style.
".During the bowling action the elbow may be held at any angle and may bend further, but may not straighten out.
One of them is the wicket-keeper aka "keeper" who operates behind the wicket being defended by the batsman on strike.
Apart from the one currently bowling, the other nine fielders are tactically deployed by the team captain in chosen positions around the field.
These positions are not fixed but they are known by specific and sometimes colourful names such as "slip", "third man", "silly mid on" and "long leg".
There are always many unprotected areas.
The substitute leaves the field when the injured player is fit to return.
English cricketer W.G. Grace "taking guard" in 1883.
His pads and bat are very similar to those used today.
The gloves have evolved somewhat.
Many modern players utilise more defensive equipment than was available to Grace, notably helmets and arm guards.
At any one time, there are two batsmen in the playing area.
One takes station at the striker's end to defend the wicket as above and to score runs if possible.
His partner, the non-striker, is at the end where the bowler is operating.
The top batting positions are usually given to the most competent batsmen in the team, and the team's bowlers – who are typically, but not always, less skilled as batsmen – typically bat last.
Substitute batsmen are not allowed.
The idea is to hit the ball to best effect with the flat surface of the bat's blade.
He can deliberately use his leg to block the ball and thereby "pad it away" but this is risky because of the leg before wicket rule.
The runner's only task was to run between the wickets instead of the incapacitated batsman, and he was required to wear and carry exactly the same equipment as the batsman.
Each completed run increments the score.
To compensate for this, hits that reach the boundary of the field are automatically awarded four runs if the ball touches the ground en route to the boundary or six runs if the ball clears the boundary without touching the ground within the boundary.
The batsmen do not need to run if the ball reaches or crosses the boundary.
Brian Lara of the West Indies holds the record for highest score in both Tests and first-class cricket.
If an odd number of runs is scored by the striker, the two batsmen have changed ends, and the one who was non-striker is now the striker.
Only the striker can score individual runs, but all runs are added to the team's total.
Additional runs can be gained by the batting team as extras  due to errors made by the fielding side.
Less common methods are "hit wicket", "hit the ball twice", "obstructed the field", "handled the ball" and "timed out" – these are almost unknown in the professional game.
If the dismissal is obvious  "how's that?" – normally reduced to howzat?
Otherwise he will shake his head and say "Not out".
Appeals are particularly loud when the circumstances of the claimed dismissal are unclear, as is always the case with lbw and often with run outs and stumpings.
Leg before wicket  when it would have gone on to hit the stumps.
This rule exists mainly to prevent the batsman from guarding his wicket with his legs instead of the bat.
To be given out lbw, the ball must not bounce outside leg stump or strike the batsmen outside the line of leg-stump.
It may bounce outside off-stump.
"Hit" does not necessarily refer to the batsman's bat.
Note that the batsman's hand or glove counts as part of the bat while the hand is holding the bat, so batsmen are frequently caught off their gloves .
If the non-striker is dismissed it is usually by being run out, but he could also be dismissed for obstructing the field, handling the ball or being timed out.
A batsman may leave the field without being dismissed.
If injured or taken ill the batsman may temporarily retire, and be replaced by the next batsman.
This is recorded as retired hurt or retired ill .
The retiring batsman is not out, and may resume the innings later.
With all other modes of dismissal, only one batsman can be dismissed per ball bowled.
In addition to this, some batsmen have been known to "walk" when they think they are out even if the umpire does not declare them out.
A scheduled game of cricket cannot be played in wet weather.
Many grounds have facilities to cover the cricket pitch  to even hover covers which form an airtight seal around the wicket.
However, most grounds do not have the facilities to cover the outfield.
This means that in the event of heavy bouts of bad weather, games may be cancelled, abandoned or suspended due to an unsafe outfield.
Another factor in cricket is the amount of light available.
The umpires always have the final decision on weather-related issues.
Uniqueness of each field Unlike those of most sports, cricket playing fields can vary significantly in size and shape.
While the dimensions of the pitch and infield are specifically regulated, the Laws of Cricket do not specify the size or shape of the field.
Pitches vary in consistency, and thus in the amount of bounce, spin, and seam movement available to the bowler.
Hard pitches are usually good to bat on because of high but even bounce.
Such pitches tend to offer help to fast bowlers throughout the match, but become better for batting as the game goes on.
While players of other outdoor sports deal with similar variations of field surface and stadium covering, the size and shape of their fields are much more standardised.
Other local factors, such as altitude and climate, can also significantly affect play.
Five homes matches were held at Kochi and two at Indore .
The team signed six bowlers, the most notable being Sri Lankan off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan .
Two renowned Wicket-keeper batsmen were signed, Brendon McCullum who is the leading run scorer in Twenty20 Internationals and Parthiv Patel .
The franchise is currently owned and chaired by Manoj Badale .
The Group acquired the franchise for $67million.
Many of the Royals' players also took home individual awards for their performance during the tournament; Yusuf Pathan claimed the Man of the Match award for the final match, Sohail Tanvir finished the tournament in possession of the Purple Cap  and Australian all-rounder Shane Watson was declared the Man of the Series.
Without these two, the team looked slightly weaker than the previous season and players such as the countryman Graeme Smith, fiery pacer Shaun Tait and the aging ‘Fuhrer’ Shane Warne had to be relied on.
Rajasthan began their 2009 campaign against the Royal Challengers Bangalore solemnly.
At the same ground although, they were defeated by the Kings XI Punjab by 27 runs.
But the team that they met in the final last season, Chennai Super Kings was too good for them in their first clash of the season in Pretoria where Chennai won by 38 runs.
They also were able to hammer Kings XI Punjab by 78 runs in their return match in Durban as Graeme Smith made the decibel levels on the ground increase with his 44-ball 77.
Seven players were dropped from the team and they were sent back to home.
The Royals failed to make it to the semifinals after losing their last two matches against Delhi Daredevils and Kolkata Knight Riders.
It was the first time that an annual charity series to be played between the Twenty20 champions of the two countries.
The match was won by Rajasthan Royals by 46 runs after scoring 162/5 in 20 overs and successfully defending it by 46 runs .
The MoM was Dimitri Mascarenhas .
The Royals were back in India after their average outing in South Africa.
Even some of the Mumbai fans were disappointed not to see Rajasthan win, by the end of it all.
And were again bruised badly by the Royal Challengers Bangalore, who won by 10 wickets.
The team remained inconsistent throughout the whole season, winning their next four matches consecutively.
Followed by which the Western Australian batsman Adam Voges hit 45 runs off 24 balls to help Rajasthan beat Punjab in Mohali by 31 runs.
But they lost against Chennai in their return clash as Murali Vijay’s hundred took the game away from them as well as were crushed in Delhi by 67 runs.
Once again, Rajasthan Royals ended the tournament miserably with losses to Mumbai Indians and the Royal Challengers Bangalore at home, and the Kolkata Knight Riders in the last round robin game in Kolkata.
The Rajasthan Royals, and the Kings XI Punjab were temporarily ejected from the league due to issues with their unreported ownership changes.
The teams were reinstated with involvement from the High Court.
MS Dhoni flashed an edge to second slip and three balls later RP Singh edged behind.
The only question now was whether India would at least make England bat again.
Sreesanth was the last to fall, heaving an inside edge on to the stumps to send England into another round of celebrations.
After making his debut for Railways cricket team in 2010, Tokas switched to Delhi in 2012.
The name "Bangalore" represents an anglicised version of the Kannada language name, "Bengalūru" ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು .
Main article: History of Bangalore Early and medieval history The Begur Nageshwara Temple was built in Bangalore around c. 860, during the reign of the Western Ganga Dynasty .
The region of modern-day Bangalore was part of several successive South Indian kingdoms.
Between the fourth and the tenth centuries, the Bangalore region was ruled by the Western Ganga Dynasty of Karnataka, the first dynasty to set up effective control over the region.
In 1117, the Hoysala king Vishnuvardhana defeated the Cholas in the Battle of Talakad in south Karnataka, and extended its rule over the region.
Kempé Gowda referred to the new town as his "gandubhūmi" or "Land of Heroes".
The crisis caused by the outbreak catalysed the city's sanitation process.
Telephone lines were laid to help coordinate anti-plague operations.
Regulations for building new houses with proper sanitation facilities came into effect.
A health officer was appointed and the city divided into four wards for better coordination.
Bangalore's reputation as the "Garden City of India" began in 1927 with the Silver Jubilee celebrations of the rule of Krishnaraja Wodeyar IV .
Several projects such as the construction of parks, public buildings and hospitals were instituted to improve the city.
Today, Bangalore is India's third most populous city.
The Hesaraghatta Lake in Bangalore Bangalore lies in the southeast of the South Indian state of Karnataka.
It is in the heart of the Mysore Plateau .
Bangladesh only scored 240/10 and Sri Lanka won the match by 92 runs.
Next match was against English, where English captain Eoin Morgan won the toss and elected to bat first.
England openers started solidly, but, from 62/0, the innings was reduced to 101/3 in the 21st over.
Joe Root and Morgan added 60 runs for the 4th wicket before the dismissal of Morgan.
The fifth wicket partnership between Root and James Taylor yielded 98 runs in 11 overs.
England were 265/6 in the 47th over, before Jos Buttler struck an unbeaten 39 in 19 balls to take the total to 309/6 at the end of 50 overs.
Sri Lankan innings began with Thirimanne being dropped on 3. His opening partner Dilshan was out for 44 immediately after their partnership had reached 100 runs.
Sangakkara joined Thirimanne and the left-hand duo punished the England bowlers with each of the batsmen making hundreds.
This was Sangakkara second consecutive century.
Sri Lanka chasing was not good at first, where Thirimanne was got out early.
After dismissal of Dilshan, the middle-order failed to gain partnerships with Sangakkara, who batting really well.
Sangakkara scored his third consecutive century.
With Sanga's wicket, Sri Lanka lost wickets quickly and scored 312/9 in 50 overs.
Australia won the match by 64 runs.
In the last group stage match, Sri Lanka easily defeated Scotland by 148 runs.
Sangakkara scored his fourth consecutive century by scoring 124 runs.
Sri Lanka scored 363/9.
Scotland only scored 215 runs.
In the quarter final, Sri Lanka met South Africans.
South Africa won the match very easily, only one wicket fell.
This match gave Lankans, their first defeat without making for the semi-finals after 1999 World Cup.
Sanath Jayasuriya was the Man of the Series .
Sri Lanka also whitewashed Bangladesh in many occasions.
On 2015-16 season, Sri Lanka whitewashed West Indies 3-0 for the first time.
As of December 2011, the Sri Lankan team has played 209 Test matches, winning 29.66%, losing 35.41% and drawing 34.93% of its games.
Sri Lanka is the only team to have participated in every edition of the Asia Cup .
Sri Lanka is the fourth nation to reach two consecutive World Cup Finals .
Sri Lanka is the first nation to reach three consecutive World Twenty20 Finals .
You can help by expanding it with reliably sourced entries.
The game is played under the rules of Twenty20 cricket.
The first T20I was played between Australia and New Zealand on 17 February 2005.
As of October 2015, Mahendra Singh Dhoni is the captain and has made the most appearances for India in T20Is.
An evaluation of biomechanical measures of bowling action legality in cricket.
In June 2004, Muralitharan also joined the United Nations World Food Program as an ambassador to fight hunger among school children.
When the tsunami devastated Sri Lanka on 26 December 2004, Muralitharan galvanised into action to ensure that aid reached people that needed it.
He persuaded those who could to donate clothes, and supervised the delivery himself.
During the hard work of rehabilitation in the tsunami's aftermath, cement was in short supply.
Kolkata Knight Riders' opening batsman Brendon McCullum scored 158 runs in the first match.
However, the team began to experience failures and lost the next four matches.
But their performance dipped again and they lost the next three matches.
The season is by far the worst in the history of the franchise.
The Kolkata Knight Riders traded Australian all-rounder Moises Henriques for Manoj Tiwary and Owais Shah .
The coach John Buchanan was replaced by Dav Whatmore.
But they came back stronger, winning their next three matches against Deccan Chargers and Rajasthan Royals at Kolkata and Jaipur respectively.
They went on to win two of the remaining four matches; one against Chennai Super Kings in Kolkata and the other against Pune Warriors India in Navi Mumbai which enabled them to qualify for the playoffs for the first time.
Jacques Kallis was the appointed captain in Gambhir's absence.
However, Gambhir returned to lead the team in the Group stage.
Their next match against Somerset Sabres ended in an 11-run defeat.
They lost their first two matches against Somerset Sabres and Southern Redbacks.
They ended up fifth on the overall points table. .
Therefore, each team played 16 matches.
They also bought South-African Marchant de Lange for $50,000.
The team replaced coach Dav Whatmore by Trevor Bayliss .
The topology of Bangalore is generally flat, though the western parts of the city are hilly.
The Kempambudhi Kere, since overrun by modern development, was prominent among those lakes.
Currently, the river Kaveri provides around 80% of the total water supply to the city with the remaining 20% being obtained from the Thippagondanahalli and Hesaraghatta reservoirs of the Arkavathi river.
Groundwater occurs in silty to sandy layers of the alluvial sediments.
Vegetation in the city is primarily in the form of large deciduous canopy and minority coconut trees.
Climate data for Bangalore Yusuf was born in the Pathan family, who are of Pashtun .
He made his Twenty20 international debut in the final against Pakistan.
He opened the batting for India in the match, and scored 15 runs in the process.
He was later dropped from the series against Sri Lanka.
Yusuf had made his One-Day International debut for India against Pakistan at Dhaka on 10 June 2008.
He was named man of the match for this effort.
The all-rounder clubbed seven fours and seven sixes on the way to his maiden one-day century to help the hosts overhaul New Zealand's challenging 315-7 with seven balls to spare at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore .
At the awards distribution ceremony he stated that "this knock will boost my career".
Even though India lost the match, his performance was complimented heavily.
During this knock, he reached his century off 68 balls which is the sixth fastest by an Indian and the second fastest by an Indian outside the subcontinent.
Thanks to his stream of good performances, he made it to the Indian team for 2011 World Cup.
The final between the Knight Riders and the defending two-time champions Chennai Super Kings was held at the M. A. Chidambaram Stadium .
Sunil Narine was the second-highest wicket-taker as well as player of the tournament, and also had the best economy rate in the tournament.
They bought back Jacques Kallis, Yusuf Pathan, Shakib Al Hasan, Manvinder Bisla and Ryan Ten Doeschate.
Their poor form continued as they lost two more matches after they were back in India, making it five losses in seven games.
The team changed their batting order, promoting Robin Uthappa as an opener which worked very well as he became the highest run scorer in the tournament with 660 runs.
He also scored 40+ runs in 10 consecutive matches.
Sunil Narine continued his great run, being the second highest wicket taker.
They played the first Qualifier at their homeground Eden Gardens against Kings XI Punjab which they won by 28 runs and entered the final for the second time in their history.
However, the black background was changed to purple in the third season.
The name Knight Riders has been chosen keeping in view the kids and the youth.
The tag line of the team was "All the King's Men" during the first four season.
The main theme of the team Korbo, Lorbo, Jitbo Re  has been created by Vishal-Shekhar duo.
The home venue of the Knight Riders is the iconic Eden Gardens .
On 13 September 2008, serial bomb blasts took place in India's capital city Delhi in which 30 people died and over 100 people were injured.
The stadium was first used for First-class cricket matches during the 1972–73 season.
It earned Test status during the 1974–75 season when the West Indies toured India.
The first Test played at this stadium was on 22–29 November 1974.
Incidentally, this was the debut Test match for the West Indian batting giants Viv Richards and Gordon Greenidge .
India defeated Sri Lanka by six wickets in that match.
Floodlights were first installed at this stadium for the 1996 Wills World Cup .
India's 365/5 at stumps was the highest 1st day score in whole of India.
The 300 run partnership was the highest partnership at the stadium and the highest left-hander batsmen partnership.
Sourav Ganguly's 239 is the highest left-hander score.
This stadium also served as venue for the 1996 Miss World pageant.
It was painted in red and yellow, the team colours of the Royal Challengers and also the colours of the Karnataka flag.
Of late, the Chinnaswamy stadium cricket pitch is said to be bouncy and pacy, which is something unprecedented in the history of Indian cricket.
The 2012 season's Ranji Trophy matches, the India-New Zealand Test and the India-Pakistan T20 International matches saw fast bowlers grab significant number of wickets.
Though, India lost the match by five wickets.
In the early 1860s, several more clubs were founded and questions began to be raised in the sporting press about which should be categorised as first-class, but there was considerable disagreement in the answers.
In 1880, the Cricket Reporting Agency was founded.
It acquired influence through the decade especially by association with Wisden Cricketers' Almanack  and the press came to generally rely on its information and opinions.
The term "first-class cricket" was formally defined by the then Imperial Cricket Conference  on 19 May 1947.
It was made clear that the definition "will not have retrospective effect".
Matches in which either team have more than eleven players or which are scheduled for less than three days shall not be regarded as first-class.
The Governing body in each country shall decide the status of teams.
The governing body grants first-class status to international teams and to domestic teams that are representative of the country's highest playing standard.
He was named in the Indian team for 2012 Asia Cup to be held in Bangladesh .
The innings also included 11 consecutive hits to the boundary .
The Cricket Academy Of Pathans was jointly launched by Yusuf and Irfan Pathan .The academy has tied up with former India coach Greg Chappell and Cameron Tradell as chief mentors.
Physics of swing bowling The Philadelphians' Bart King helped to perfect swing bowling in the early 20th century The essence of swing bowling is to get the cricket ball to deviate sideways as it moves through the air towards or away from the batsman .
In order to do this, the bowler makes use of five factors:The raised seam of the cricket ball The wear and tear on the ball The polishing liquid used on the ball The speed of the delivery The asymmetry of the ball is encouraged by the constant polishing of one side of the ball by members of the fielding team, while allowing the opposite side to deteriorate through wear and tear.
Both turbulent and laminar airflow contribute to swing.
Air in laminar flow separates from the surface of the ball earlier than air in turbulent flow, so that the separation point moves toward the front of the ball on the laminar side.
The calculated net lift force is not enough to account for the amount of swing observed.
Additional force is provided by the pressure-gradient force .
To induce the pressure-gradient force the bowler must create regions of high and low static pressure on opposing sides of the ball.
The ball is then "sucked" from the region of high static pressure towards the region of low static pressure.
The Magnus effect utilises the same force but by manipulating spin across the direction of motion.
When the ball is older and there is an asymmetry in roughness the seam no longer causes the pressure difference, and can actually reduce the swing of the ball.
Air turbulence is no longer used to create separation point differences and therefore the lift and pressure differences.
On the rough side of the ball there are scratches and pits in the ball's surface.
This lowers the static pressure relative to the shiny side, which swings the ball.
If the scratches and tears completely cover the rough side of the ball, the separation point on the rough side will move to the back of the ball, further than that of the turbulent air, thereby creating more lift and faster air flow.
If the seam is used to create the turbulent air on the rough side, the tears will not fill as quickly as they would with laminar flow, dampening the lift and pressure differences.
Reverse swing occurs in exactly the same manner as conventional swing, despite popular misconception.
When polishing the shiny side of the ball, numerous liquids are used, such as sweat, saliva, sunscreen, hair gel  and creates raised bumps on the polished side, due to the non-uniform nature of the expansion.
The valleys between the bumps hold the air in the same manner as the tears on the rough side.
The greater air coverage is now on the shiny side, giving rise to more lift and faster secondary airflow on that side.
A peculiarity of the two-innings match is the follow-on law.
If the team that batted second is substantially behind on first innings total, it may be required to bat again  in the third innings of the match.
Inevitable differences have arisen and there are variations in published first-class statistics .
A key issue for the statisticians is when first-class cricket for their purpose is deemed to have begun.
Writing in 1951, Roy Webber argued that the majority of matches prior to 1864  "cannot be regarded as first-class" and their records are used "for their historical associations".
Subsequently, Webber's view has been challenged by those who suggest earlier dates for the commencement of "first-class statistics".
Bill Frindall believed that 1815 should be the start to encompass the entire roundarm bowling phase of cricket's history.
However, roundarm did not begin in earnest until 1827.
However commendable these views may be, they are not only unofficial but also entirely statistical.
This major cricket match has enormous historical significance but has no value at all for statisticians as there is no surviving data.
In late 2005 pacemen Sreesanth and R. P. Singh made their international debuts and became regular members of the Indian team making it difficult for Zaheer to retain his position in the playing eleven.
In Indian domestic cricket, Zaheer made his name playing for Baroda .
He transferred to Mumbai at the start of the 2006-07 Indian cricket season his debut for Mumbai until the final of the Ranji Trophy in which he totowards it, not away from it as in conventional swing.
Due to the less static nature of the initial air layer it takes longer for the swing to occur, which is why it occurs later in the delivery.
This is why conventional and reverse swing can occur in the same delivery.
Cold and humid weather tend to enhance swing, due to the lift force increasing with the density of the air.
Colder air is more dense than warm air.
Typically, bowlers more commonly bowl outswingers, as they tend to move away from the batsman, meaning he has to "chase" the ball in order to hit it.
Also, if the batsman misjudges the amount of swing, he can hit the ball with an edge of the bat.
An inswinger presents relatively fewer dangers to the batsman, but on some particular days can be devastating due to risk of being bowled or leg before wicket .
Normal swing occurs mostly when the ball is fairly new.
When the ball becomes very old—around 40 or more overs old—it begins to swing towards the shine.
Reverse swing tends to be stronger than normal swing, and to occur late in the ball's trajectory.
This can be done in two ways Pioneers and notable practitioners of reverse swing have mostly been Pakistani fast bowlers.
In the early days of reverse swing, Pakistani bowlers were suspected of ball tampering to achieve the conditions of the ball that allow reverse swing.
This can be done by observing the bowler's grip and action  or by means of prior knowledge of the bowler; many can bowl or are proficient in only one type of swing.
Traditional methods include the batsmen playing the ball as late as possible, and not playing away from the body.
Other effective measures for combating swing bowling include standing well outside the crease, thus giving the ball less time to swing; and guessing the direction of swing based on the seam position observed in the ball's flight.
Since reverse swing occurs at faster speeds, later in the trajectory of the ball and with no real obvious change in action and grip (Waqar Younis from Pakistan for example had the same action and grip for nearly all his deliveries Controversy regarding reverse swing has never left modern cricket, as the Pakistani team was accused of ball tampering by the controversial Australian umpire Darrell Hair during the fourth test against England in 2006 when the ball began to reverse swing after the 50th over.
The tentativeness that has been conspicuously absent from their play crept in.
Australia's sharp work in the field gave them no leeway.
Nothing was misfielded, no catches were dropped, no easy singles conceded.
Taylor never seemed quite in, though, and when he was out, New Zealand collapsed.
Defending 183, everything had to go right for New Zealand, they had to give themselves every possible chance of bowling Australia out.
His team had to set the pace here.
Had they gone out hard and run out of energy, so be it.
That has been the New Zealand way.
Instead, they sat one out and one back, waiting for the Australians to flag.
They never did.
Australia were too strong in too many areas.
New Zealand can be proud to have reached their first World Cup final.
But they will fly home wondering what might have been, and what they might have done differently.
He captained the Sri Lankan cricket team in the 2006 U-19 Cricket World Cup in Sri Lanka.
He later made his first-class debut for Colombo Cricket Club in November, 2006.
Angelo Mathews made his Test debut in Pakistan tour of Sri Lanka, 2009.
He scored his maiden half-century in the third Test of the series, played at Sinhalese Sports Club Ground, Colombo.
His maiden ton came against Australia in September, 2011 in the same venue.
In February 2013, Mathews became Sri Lanka's youngest ever Test captain at 25, after having been groomed for the post for two years.
Mathews became an important member in Sri Lanka One Day team during the Sri Lanka tour of Australia in 2010/11.
Sri Lanka were in trouble when he come into the crease, but finally won the match.
Mathews hit back-to-back centuries against England at Lord’s and Headingley to seal Sri Lanka’s first-ever Test series win in England.
He hit four boundaries and ten huge sixes, but finally ended up in the losing side by century made by Indian skipper Virat Kohli .
Mathews was able to bring the team to quarter finals of the World Cup 2015 under his captaincy, where they lost the quarter final against South Africa on 18 March 2015.
This defeat was Sri Lanka's first lost in World Cups after 2003, without reaching for the semi finals.
In the Indian Premier League cricket, he currently plays for Delhi Daredevils .
He is one of the most sought out players in the Premier League world, having been bought by the Pune Warriors for US $950,000.
Mathews is married to his longtime partner, Heshani Silva.
Product and brand endorsements Angelo Mathews endorses the following products.
Dilshan converted from Islam to Buddhism Dilshan was married to Nilanka Vithanage, and they have one boy- Resadu Tillakaratne.
Nilanka Vithanage is now married to another Sri Lanka cricketer, Upul Tharanga .
Dilshan is now married to Sri Lankan teledrama actress Manjula Thilini .
Dilshan has two daughters and one son from this second marriage.
Their eldest daughter is Resandi Linama Tillakaratne, and second is Lasadi Dihasansa Tillakaratne.
Only son, who is Dihela Dinhath Tillakaratne, is the youngest of all.
So, he is very occasionally participated in many local events and television programs.
The hotel was opened by the presence of former president of Sri Lanka, Mahinda Rajapakse .
Dilshan played his test debut against Zimbabwe on 18 November 1999 at Bulawayo .
Dilshan's One-Day International debut also came during Sri Lanka's tour of Zimbabwe in 1999, where he scored 31 runs against Zimbabwe .
His innovative stroke play is acknowledged by many commentators and pundits thereby earning the recognition of being known as one of the most aggressive batsmen of all time.
Dilshan playing against England in 2011Dilshan was the top run scorer in the 2011 Cricket World Cup .
However, his appointment as captain was questioned by cricket fans and pundits alike.
Many wondered if he was the right man to lead Sri Lanka .
This also became their first Test win under Dilshan's captaincy.
Dilshan played 87 test matches amassing 5,492 runs along with 16 centuries and 39 wickets.
He became the 5th Sri Lankan cricker and 15th overall to achieve this landmark.
He won both man of the match award and man of the series award.
With this score of 161e desired time that the match should last.
Typically, two-innings matches have at least six hours of playing time each day.
Limited overs matches often last six hours or more.
There are usually formal intervals on each day for lunch and tea with brief informal breaks for drinks.
These will vary in length between 30 and 60 overs per side at the weekend and the ever popular 20 over format during the evenings.
Other forms of cricket, such as indoor cricket and garden cricket remain popular.
Single wicket has rarely been played since limited overs cricket began.
The men wearing black trousers are the umpires .
Teams in Test cricket, first-class cricket and club cricket wear traditional white uniforms and use red cricket balls .
Test cricket is the highest standard of first-class cricket.
Although the term "Test match" was not coined until much later, Test cricket is deemed to have begun with two matches between Australia and England in the 1876–77 Australian season .
Subsequently, eight other national teams have achieved Test status: South Africa .
Test matches that are not finished within the allotted time are drawn.
Some other bilateral series have individual trophies too: for example, the Wisden Trophy is contested by England and West Indies; the Frank Worrell Trophy by Australia and West Indies and the Border-Gavaskar Trophy between India and Australia.
Wisden Cricketers' Almanack reported that "neither side took the game especially seriously", The game had initially been developed to boost the interest in domestic cricket, and to aid this the international teams were only allowed to host three T20Is each year.
Teams with T20I status The ten Test-playing nations  have permanent T20I status.
With this, he became the fourth Sri Lankan and eleventh overall to achieve the milestone.
They are Sanath Jayasuriya and Tillakaratne Dilshan.
Jayasuriya has scored 4,142 runs.
Currently he is only behind McCullum by runs in T20Is.
Dilshan publicly displayed his support to Mahinda Rajapaksa at the 2015 Presidential Election which has received severe criticism from some of his fans.
He did so by welcoming Mahinda Rajapakse to Maharagama for an election rally.
Bold ones are World Records.
He is second in the list of all time.
Highest partnership  against Zimbabwe in 2011.
He is the second Sri Lankan and fifth overall to achieved hundreds in all forms of the game.
He is the first Sri Lankan to score 1,500 T20I runs.
He is known for his ability to bowl yorkers and slower bowls to restrict scoring in the later overs of games.
He is the highest wicket taker in all Twenty20 cricket and highest wicket taker for Sri Lanka in Twenty20 Internationals as well.
Thirimanne began his cricketing career at S.Thomas' College, Bandarawela and played Under 11 cricket and his first coach was Sujeewa Gunarathne.
He studied at S.Thomas' College Bandarawela initially as his father, who was employed at the Survey Department was transferred.
He made his One Day International  debut in early 2010.
He made his Test debut against England at the Rose Bowl my and Anthony Martin backed up expertly with their bowling, scalping six under-pressure batsmen between them.
The highest is the 135-run win in Vijayawada in 2002.
The 146 is India's sixth-lowest score against West Indies overall and their second lowest in the West Indies.
Their lowest in the same period is 88 against Sri Lanka in Dambulla in 2008.
His highest is the 94 against Ireland in the 2011 World Cup.
It was never going to be an easy win.
Not with Praveen Kumar and Amit Mishra in the kind of form they've been in.
The two bowled six maiden overs and took five wickets between them to undo Simmons' good work.
However, another flatterer-and-deceiver forgot the deceiving part today.
Pollard played one of his more responsible international innings to pull West Indies out of trouble.
After an edgy start, Pollard showed much better discretion and cricketing sense.
Baugh reciprocated just like he had done with Russell two days ago.
That was not the first mistake Norman Malcolm made, nor was it the last.
Pollard, meanwhile, was making all the right decisions.
The big shots and the singles were mixed well.
Nor was there any urge to hit every delivery into the stands.
He went after Mishra only when he bowled flat.
He contributed 64 to the 96-run stand.
Having put India under pressure, Pollard holed out in the first over of the batting Powerplay that begun in the 44th over.
Having reached their best score of the season, West Indies were aggressive in defence.
The pitch wasn't as slow as the ones in the earlier matches, and Kemar Roach and Russell didn't bother about keeping some in the tank.
They went all out against the inexperienced top order, and Sammy was canny from the other end.
It showed as he struggled against the moving ball.
Nerves were on display too.
He almost ran himself out and was dropped off Roach before finally edging Sammy.
Parthiv Patel pulled, flicked and upper-cut well in scoring 26 of the 41 runs that came while he was at the crease.
S Badrinath was then pinged by Russell's bouncers.
There was an air of helplessness in the way he moved about the crease, trying to get out of the way, looking for the upper-cut.
Here were India facing the heat, and the fireman stoked the fire by scalping India's best batsman, Virat Kohli, in his first over and the innings' 21st.
Under pressure, Suresh Raina looked for release, but slogged Martin straight to midwicket to make it 111 for 5.  5.Yusuf Pathan soon did something similar to Simmons, but there was still one man West Indies needed to see the back of.
In 2015, he has switched from UP to Gujarat in domestic circuit and currently representing Gujarat in Ranji Trophy.
India went on to win the series 4–1.
However, he was unable to maintain his level of performance, and was dropped from the side.
In 2006 it was announced that Singh would be signing for English side Leicestershire as their second overseas signing.
Singh was included in the Test squad for the tour to England and performed well, taking 5/59 at Lord's his first five-wicket-haul in Tests.
In the one-day series he took seven wickets at 31.71 from five matches.
India won the 12-nation tournament after beating Pakistan in the final.
In 2005 Zaheer signed for Worcestershire County Cricket Club in England as one of their two overseas players, replacing Shoaib Akhtar .
He, along with other seamers like Javagal Srinath and Ashish Nehra helped India to make it to the finals of the 2003 World Cup .
Zaheer finished the tournament as fourth highest wicket-taker – 18 wickets from 11 matches at an average of 20 runs per wicket.
Zaheer was the mainstay of Indian bowling attack during the side's victorious 2011 World Cup campaign.
He was the leading wicket-taker in the tournament, joint with Pakistan's Shahid Afridi on 21.
Zaheer has taken 311 Test wickets at an average of just over 32 runs per wicket.
South African star all-rounder Jacques Kallis was Zaheer's 300th test wicket.
It all turned downhill after the first Test against Australia in Brisbane in December 2003.
After missing the second Test he returned for the third, but was injured midway through the match and was forced to return home.
The injury kept him from the early 2004 tour of Pakistan, India's first Test series victory in the country.
This record was broken by Tino Best of the West Indies in 2012.
The current record holder is Ashton Agar of the Australia on his debut match in 2013.
Later he attended Jamia Milia Islamia for graduation.
Sehwag made his debut for Delhi cricket team in first class cricket in the 1997–98 season.
He was selected to the North Zone cricket team for the Duleep Trophy the following 1998–99 season, ending fifth in the total runscoring list.
He did not get another chance in the national team for 20 months.
Sehwag was not given another match until the home series against Zimbabwe  He followed this with an unproductive tour of Zimbabwe in mid-2001.
Eventually, Sri Lanka became champions for the fifth time in Asia Cup history.
However, Sri Lanka lost the series to 4-2 finally.
Before the tournament, Sri Lankan opening pair was struggeled to pick up, but finally it was sealed between Thirimanne and Dilshan.
He added 212* runs for the second wicket partnership with Kumar Sangakkara to win the match.
He was unbeaten 139 in the match.
Thirimanne is married to Rookie Harishchandra.
He was the first schoolboy cricketer to exceed 1,000 runs, with an aggregate 1,580 runs, and won the Observer-Mobitel Schoolboy Cricketer of the Year Award in 2009.
On leaving school, he joined the Nondescripts Cricket Club .
He scored 64, four and 109 in his first three innings for the Sri Lanka Cricket Development XI.
Chandimal made his Test debut for Sri Lanka in December 2011, in the second Test of the series against South Africa in Durban .
On debut he made half-centuries  in each of Sri Lanka's innings.
He became the first Sri Lankan batsman to score half centuries in both innings on Test debut.
This incidentally led Sri Lanka to their first Test win in South Africa.
In 2013 he was appointed captain of the Sri Lanka T20 side and also vice-captain of the country's one day international team.
Malinga was able to lead the team for their first ever Twenty20 champion title and this strengthen Malinga as the permanent captain of the Twenty20 team.
During the innings, he was retired hurt, and eventually Sri Lanka lost the match by 64 runs.
His One Day International debut came five years later in 2004, against Zimbabwe at Harare Sports Club .
Herath is currently ranked as the number three Test match bowler in the world.
Former Sri Lankan captain Mahela Jayawardene rated Herath as Sri Lanka's number one bowler after the retirement of Muralitharan.
He took six test wickets against the Australians.
Herath played only in the test at Galle during the home series against India.
Though Sri Lanka won, he only managed to take the wicket of Indian spinner Harbhajan Singh in that match.
Herath was recalled for the second test match against the West Indies in November 2010.
Sri Lanka Tour in South Africa In the second Test of Sri Lanka's tour of South Africa in December 2011, Herath took nine wickets and won the Man of the Match award.
Sri Lanka won the match by 208 runs; it was their first Test win in South Africa.
England Tour in Sri Lanka Herath took 12 Wickets during the first test match of the 2012 England Vs.
In his second season of the tournament, Singh was highly successful and he emerged as the highest wicket taker of the tournament, with 23 from 16 matches thereby winning the Purple Cap.
Deccan Chargers emerged as winners of the tournament.
He is also the leading all time wicket taker in Indian Premier League with 52 wickets.
He was bought for $600,000 by the Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League Players Auction, 2012.
After the England Series in 2011, he has never come back to international cricket.
On 28 August 1992 it hosted its inaugural Test match between Sri Lanka and Australia .
A new training center has been developed behind the stadium with 16 practice pitches and dormitories for the Sony Max Cricket Academy which started in 2003.
The stadium has been undergoing large-scale renovations since 2009.
It has had its seating capacity increase from 14,000 to 40,000, the media-box accommodating 200 journalists, and other upgrades.
The renovations have cost Sri Lanka Cricket $8 million.
The main four public stands were refurbished along with the player dressing room area and the corporate boxes.
Current stands at R. Premadasa.
Several corporate boxes are built in these two stands.
The lower tiers have concrete paving allocated for floor seating and the upper tier includes fully standard seating blocks.
The grandstand and top level block above the player pavilions have enhanced quality seating.
The tournament was later postponed till 2012 due to financial complications and internal regime change at Sri Lanka Cricket.
The lowest Test total is 87 by Bangladesh against Sri Lanka in 2005.
Sanath Jayasuriya scored 340 against India in 1997.
The best bowling figures in an innings is 6/18 by Muttiah Muralitharan against Bangladesh in the 2005/06 season.
Muttiah Muralitharan with 69 scalps has captured the most number of wickets at the Premadasa stadium.
The lowest Test total is 80 by Afghanistan against England in 21 September 2012.
Unmukt shifted to Modern School, Barakhamba Road, in the 9th standard, getting admission in this prestigious school on the basis of his excellent performance in studies, in the written test and his skills in swimming.
Unmukt Chand scored 435 runs during his first stint with the Delhi U-19 team.
That year he also scored two half-centuries against Assam and Saurashtra .
India progress to the final.
However, despite this assurance, Sehwag's form continued to decline.
Sehwag started the 2007 World Cup in poor form, only being picked for the side because of Rahul Dravid's wishes.
Eventually, he led India to win its first series win in New Zealand.
Sehwag's scoring rate is extremely quick, at 103.44 runs per 100 balls .
He has had more success in run chases, scoring seven of his thirteen centuries while chasing.
In December 2011 Sehwag scored 219 in 149 deliveries against West Indies at Indore .
An innings-by-innings breakdown of Sehwag's Test match batting career, showing runs scored .
He then scored 195 against Australia on Boxing Day 2003 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground .
It was Sehwag's sixth Test century in 21 Tests.
Tom Moody, so nicknamed for his 2.00 metre  height, began his first class career in the 1985/86 season with Western Australia in the Sheffield Shield and also played in England with Warwickshire and Worcesnce helped him to secure the "Man of the Match" award in Galle.
He was man of the match in both Test matches and also man of the series.
India Tour in Sri Lanka Main article: Indian cricket team in Sri Lanka in 2015In the second innings of the first Test, Herath took seven wickets for 48 runs, where Sri Lanka only had 175 runs behind India's total of 375.
This was his 22nd five-wicket haul in Tests.
In the bowling, Herath took his 23rd five-wicket haul in test cricket and the very first against West Indies.
He finished with 6/68 runs and West Indies were all out for 251.
This gave windies to keep follow-on and they came in to bat for the second innings just on the third day.
Herath took 4/79 in second innings, finished his fifth ten-wicket haul in Test cricket and adjudged man of the match award as well.
Kusal made his One day international debut against Australia on January 13, 2013, replacing the injured Dinesh Chandimal .
His debut Twenty20 International also came in the same series against Australia on January 26, 2013.
He scored 106 from 124 balls before getting bowled By Rubel Hossain .
He won the "Man of the Match" award.
After the tournament starts, Dimuth Karunaratne was injured and Perera was called to the World Cup squad.
He played his first World Cup match against Scotland on 11 March 2015, where he scored quick 24 runs.
He was replaced to this match due to injury for Dinesh Chandimal aginast Australia .
Sri Lanka eventually lost the match and quit from the World Cup as well.
He just lost the first match for quick 26 runs in Dambulla.
He is the 26th of all cricketers to dismissed in 99.
Perera made his T20I debut in the first T20I against Australia in January 2013 and scored 33 from 22 balls before getting caught behind off Australian all rounder, Glenn Maxwell .
In this match he hit some aggressive shots and many compared him with Sanath Jayasuriya .
Sri Lanka won the match by 24 runs and Perera earned the "Man of the Match" for the performance.
Kusal is the current wicket-keeper in T20 internationals.
He scored 125 runs in the tournament at an average of 20.83 and an impressive strike rate of 145.48.
He had some quick runs in the next matches, but failed to effect larger to the team.
However, Sri Lanka won their first T20I title by defeating India in the final.
He made his Test debut for Sri Lanka against India on 28 August 2015.
His arrival to the test team was not good at all, when he dropped Indian skipper Virat Kohli in fairly easy catch.
He showed his batting talents right on the first innings of the match, where he was the top scorer for Sri Lanka with 56 runs in first innings.
He was part of the team defeated in the final of the tournament by India, scoring 22 not out off ten deliveries and taking the wicket of Gautam Gambhir .
He made his debut in the first Test of the series at Sophia Gardens, Cardiff.
In that innings against India in the final, Perera had an unbeaten partnership with Kumar Sangakkara and hit the winning boundary.
He took 2–19 as England were bowled out for 88, and Sri Lanka took less than 14 overs to win by 10 wickets.
He skills lie in his ability to produce inswing and he is well known for his moderate nature to the batsmen, seldom being overly aggressive.
He is regarded as one of the best swing bowlers currently playing cricket.
He scored his first Test fifty against England in the 1st Test at Lord's in May 2006, batting out much of the fifth day to save the match.
He recorded his best bowling figures 5/22 in this match.
He was raised Catholic.
He has had his basic education at St Anthony's College at Kadalana in his village where there were no facilities at all for sports.
He subsequently entered Moratuwa Maha Vidyalaya in the year of 2000.
In the year 2000 he represented the school under 15 cricket team and he was selected to the first eleven team.
He also deputised for the school team captain.
Mendis bowls off spin as his stock delivery and he has few more variations in his armoury- leg spin, top spin and faster bowl.
All this was developed during 2006/2007 domestic seasons on his own.
There he was able to polish his cricketing skills further.
He had the opportunity of touring neighbouring India on an eight-day tour in June 2007 where he was given the opportunity to play two, two-day matches.
In the meantime, Sri Lanka Cricket selectors could not ignore his performance in the Premier Limited Over Tournament 2007/2008 and got him selected to play in the "Ptershire .
Since retirement in 2001, Moody has coached, been an Australian cricketer's representative and for several years held the post of director of cricket with Worcestershire.
In May 2005 he was appointed coach of the Sri Lankan national team and he led them to the final of the 2007 world cup before leaving the post.
Ishant wins the battle again!
The top three picks are allocated by chance among the 14 teams that did not make the playoffs the year before.
Almost all top U.S. players thus play at least one year in college.
All 14 teams that failed to qualify for the playoffs take part in the weighted lottery with the winner moving up to select first overall.
Any North American player aged 18–20, and any overseas player aged 18–21 is eligible to be selected.
The three major junior leagues that make up the Canadian Hockey League also hold drafts of teenage players in their territories.
Major League Baseball holds two drafts each year.
Draftees are high-school graduates who have opted not to go to college; college baseball players at four-year institutions who have played three years or turned 21; or junior college baseball players.
The draft lasts up to 50 rounds.
The drafting team must keep the player on its major-league roster; it cannot put the player in its own minor-league system.
The draft is currently three rounds long with each of the 12 teams in the league  getting three picks each.
Draft order for teams that made the playoffs the previous year are based on team records.
The team with the highest previous record will pick last.
The Canadian Football League holds its annual player draft before the start of the season, either in the last days of April or the start of May.
The draft is restricted to Canadian citizens, plus non-citizens who were raised in Crovincial Tournament 2008" representing "Wayamba Province" under the National Captain.
In that tournament he performed exceptionally well with the ball.
Local TV commentators predicted him as the ideal replacement for senior spinner Muttiah Muralitharan in time to come and nicknamed him as "Mysterious Bowler".
He now, however, has confirmed that he will be playing for South West side Somerset in the upcoming 2011 English domestic season.
The veteran West Indies cricket writer Tony Becca wrote in the Jamaica Gleaner: "Mendis bowls everything.
The result is that he mesmerises, or bamboozles, batsmen.
He is exceptional.
He is the future of Sri Lankan cricket,".
Mendis collected his first ten-wicket haul in the very next match, which Sri Lanka went on to lose.
Ajantha Mendis won the player of the series award for his efforts.
His 17 wickets is the best for an edition of the Asia Cup, and he bagged those wickets at an astounding average of 8.52.
Ajantha Mendis won the man of the match award in the finals as well as the player of the tournament award for his efforts.
He broke the record by snatching 50 wickets in just 19 matches.
Mendis was not included to the 2015 Cricket World Cup team and he did not play in the other bilateral series in late 2014 to late 2015.
On 10 October 2008, Ajantha Mendis made his Twenty20 debut against Zimbabwe in King City, Canada.
He claimed four for 15 in four overs and won the man of the match award.
For his remarkable performance of 11 wickets for 55 in just three games, Ajantha Mendis was adjudged the player of the series.
Mendis was the top choice of the 25-person Voting Academy, coming in ahead of England's up-and-coming Stuart Broad, South Africa fast bowler Morne Morkel and fast bowler Ishant Sharma of India.
Product and brand endorsements Senanayake made his international debut for Sri Lanka in the fourth One Day International  of the tour of South Africa in January 2012.
During the 2013 Indian Premier League auction he was bought by Kolkata Knight Riders for US$15,000.
On 2015, he contracted for 2014 NatWest t20 Blast in England for the team Worcestershire .
He was again called up for the 2015 Cricket World Cup and looked poor performances in the pool match against Australia.
Lakmal is also the first cricketer from Hambantota District to represent the national cricket team of Sri Lanka .
Prasad was selected for the 2015 Cricket World Cup original squad, but was unable play due to injury.
So he was called off from the World Cup squad.
After World Cup, Prasad brought back into the squad for Test series against Pakistan.
Due to Sri Lanka lost the first Test at Galle, the second Test must win to level the series.
During the India Test tour in 2015, Prasad showed immense talent with the new ball, where he used to take up the wickets in very first over in each Test match getting rid of Indian top order.
He was the highest wicket taker for Sri Lanka in the series with 15 wickets.
He made his Test match debut for Sri Lanka against New Zealand on 26 December 2014.
Kaushal made his One Day International debut for Sri Lanka against South Africa on 18 March 2015 in the quarter-finals of the 2015 Cricket World Cup .
Kaushal replaced injured Dilruwan Perera for the second test against Pakistan .
Kaushal's second five wicket haul came against India at Galle on 13 August 2015.
Sri Lanka was in desparate trouble in the match, where their spearhead Rangana Herath along with Kaushal destroyed the India's second innings to just 112 runs.
Sri Lanka finally won the match by 63 runs.
Kaushal's bowling action is slightly similar to legendary fellow Sri Lankan spinner Muttiah Muralitharan .
After the study, Sri Lanka's chairman of selectors Kapila Wijegunawardene stated that, the off-spin of Kaushal is legal to bowl, but not the doosra.
So, Kaushal is banned for bowling doosra in international level.
He made his first-class debut for Sebastianites Cricket and Athletic Club in 2005.
In 2012, Milinda went over to England to become Bury CC's professional for the 2012 season but his stay was cut short as he was selected to play in the Sri Lanka Premin five Ranji matches.
He has participated in Vinoo Mankad Trophy and the Coach Behar Trophy at the junior level.
Unmukt Chand was named the captain of the Delhi U-19 team  He ended the tournament with 336 runs from seven outings, just one behind Australia’s Cam Bancroft .
He also participated in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy later that season.
In his captaincy India also won the U-19 World cup in Australia.
Batting at 3, Chand scored an impressive 94 against England in the semi-final to help India win the match by 63 runs.
He won the Man of the match award in both the games.
Delhi went on to win the game by 95 runs and the title for the first time.
His performances however are nowhere near his match-winning performances for India U19 in the World Cup and he was dropped for the last game against Sunrisers Hyderabad.
He was picked for the Mumbai Indians in the 2015 season and spent most of the season on the sidelines due to indifferent performances.
The TV pundits always find an answer.
And this time, in the context of at least the Indian players, they may even be right.
This series against West Indies is about the young and the restless India.
It's about assessing the hunger and the talent in these men.
Not many have criticised Raina's "attitude"; in fact Rahul Dravid hailed him as among the more hardworking youngsters he's seen in recent times.
In that respect he is treading the path of Michael Bevan.
Bevan's Test career was derailed by his problems against the short ball and Raina has to do something very quickly if he wants to avert similar free fall.
For long Virat Kohli had been oscillating between Rohit and Raina.
Attitude problems dogged him but he, like Raina, seemed determined to get himself out of the doghouse.
Slowly, step by step, he has erased almost all his blots.
And if Raina slips up, Kohli could well pounce on the captaincy as well.
Opportunity and fame threatened to get the better of him and he wasn't perhaps mentally equipped to deal with them.
Critics singled out his lack of hunger.
This series will be the chance for him to offer some definitive proof.
His path to manhood played out on big flat plasma screens to billions of fans.
Again, like Rohit, his talent has been scarcely questioned but everyone and his uncle have been hammering on his temperament.
For long Ishant Sharma has been living off that one demonic spell against Ricky Ponting.
Unlike Sreesanth or Rohit, his attitude has never been questioned.
Venkatesh Prasad, the former bowling coach, even nominated him as the most disciplined and hardworking aspirant.
Perhaps, in his case, he tried too much.
For long Murali Vijay has flattered to deceive.
If he can marry that kind of discipline with his talent, he can progress.
However, the jury is still out on his skill on tough pitches.
It's not to say that he doesn't have the talent to cope, but that he hasn't been tested yet.
He made his Twenty20 International debut for Sri Lanka against Pakistan on 30 July 2015.
He was the highest run scorer for Sri Lanka in that match, where he had quick 35 runs, until he gets caught.
Sri Lanka eventually lost the match at the end.
His first T20 international wicket came on second match of the series, where he took the wicket of Shoaib Malik .
Milinda made his Test debut on 14 October 2015, against the West Indies .
In the second match of the series, Milinda top scored valuable 68 runs where Sri Lanka were all out for 200 runs in first innings.
In the second innings, Milinda again scored quick 42 runs, just lost his maiden Test fifty.
As Sri Lanka only scored 206 runs, Windies only required 244 runs to win the match and level the series.
West Indies could not come back and Sri Lanka finally won the match by 72 runs and won the series as well.
Having played for Nondescripts since the age of 15, he played for Sri Lanka's under-15, under-17 and under-19 squads.
He was sent by the Sri Lankan cricketing board to play league cricket for Loughton Cricket Club in Essex.
His equipment, which was also washed away, was replaced by Kumar Sangakkara .
Tharanga graduated to the "A" team and in July he was selected for the full squad.
On the 2006 tour of England he really began to develop, particularly in the one-day game, scoring over 300 runs in Sri Lanka's 5–0 whitewash of the hosts.
However, in the 2011 World Cup, he is back to performing remarkably.
In the quarter-final game against England, his partnership with Dilshan could not be pierced.
Together they wrapped up the game, each acquiring centuries.
His strong form has returned him to the opening position in the strong Sri-Lankan batting line up.
The only other player to achieve this feat is Ricky Ponting .
With that innings he became the 9th Sri Lankan player to pass 5000 runs margin.
Despite of his low match participation, he has earned 13 centuries and 11 man of the match titles for his name throughout his international career.
He scored 46 runs in the first innings and 48 in the second innings.
However, Sri Lanka lost the series by 2-1.
The duration of Tests, currently limited to figin their path to sobriety.
Yet wickets could still be wrought from it, as Stuart Broad showed on Sunday morning when his double strike in the space of four balls suddenly gave England an unexpected glimpse of victory.
In India’s first innings England’s bowlers were hampered not only by the surface but their failure to get the ball to move sideways, whether through cut, conventional swing or reverse.
Four balls later he had Ajinkya Rahane caught behind by Prior.
It would be tempting to suggest that Rahane nicked the outswinger, but the aspect of the shine on the replay suggested it was simply an inswinger that did not move as much as the batsman suspected.
If so, those two quick wickets in the opening three overs would have got the bowels moving.
Broad and Anderson bowled well, troubling both Dhoni and Ravindra Jadeja and conceding almost no runs.
With pressure building by the ball, Broad should have claimed Dhoni but Cook spilt the catch at first slip when Matt Prior was standing up to the stumps.
The captain did something similar last year against Australia, when he dropped Peter Siddle off Anderson.
His miss this time was similarly inexpensive, though he had little to do with Dhoni’s dismissal, bowled off his pads by Liam Plunkett, other than to bring Plunkett on for Broad.
Anderson got him soon after England had taken the second new ball, eventually finding the edge the left-hander had promised all morning.
A quick kill by England and an unexpected victory was not out of the question.
Binny eventually fell for 78 when Moeen Ali spun one past his bat, though not before the all-rounder had struck the off-spinner for six over extra cover.
Fletcher never played Test cricket in his playing career.
Career as coach Under Fletcher the England cricket team achieved famous series victories away to Sri Lanka, Pakistan, West Indies and South Africa between 2000-2004.
His most famous and largest achievement however came in September 2005, when he became the first coach of the English team to win an Ashes series for 18 years when England secured 2-1 victory over Australia.
Although both his parents and all his grandparents were ethnically English, i.e. of English/British descent, Fletcher had been denied citizenship by virtue of the fact he spent most of his time abroad—touring with the England team.
Following defeat to Australia by 206 runs in the third test on 18 December 2006 which saw England relinquish the Ashes 15 months after gaining them, the England and Wales Cricket Board confirmed that Fletcher's position as head coach was under review.
Thive days, has varied through Test history, ranging from three days to timeless matches .
Cricket is, by its nature, capable of generating large numbers of records and statistics .
Pakistan's Misbah-ul-Haq holds the record of the fastest test half century from just 21 balls and along with West Indies Batsman Viv Richards holds the record of the fastest test century both of them scoring from just 56 balls.
The trend of countries to increase the number of Test matches they play means that the aggregate lists are dominated by modern players.
Sri Lankan spinner Muttiah Muralitharan became the highest Test wicket-taker in December 2007, when he passed Shane Warne 's total of 708 wickets.
List of Twenty20 International records From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article contains records for men's Twenty20 Internationals.
For the corresponding women's records visit List of women's Twenty20 International records Shahid Afridi is the highest wicket-taker in T20I cricket.
Cricket is, by its nature, capable of generating large numbers of records and statistics .
Records and statistics are kept for individual players and teams across the three disciplines of batting, bowling, and fielding.
Some of these lists are aggregate in nature.
The trend of countries to increase the number of T20I matches they play means that these aggregate lists are dominated by modern players.
Other, non-aggregate records, include most runs scored in an over, highest career strike rate, and most consecutive wins and defeats.
The championship consists of two separate ranking tables.
Latest entrant is Afghanistan, by defeating Bangladesh in 2014 Asia Cup .
The calculations for the Table are performed as follows:Each team scores points based on the results of their matches.
A match only counts if played in the last four years.
Matches played in the first year of the four-year limit count one-third; matches played in the second year counts half; matches played in the last two years count fully; essentially, recent matches are given higher weighting.
Points earned by teams depend on the opponents ratings, therefore this system needed to assign base ratings to teams when it started.
England won by 169 runs Player of the match: Joe Root England won the toss and elected to bat.
This list may not reflect recent changes .
The match was scheduled for five days but completed in four.
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
The basic fast bowling grip to achieve maximum speed is to hold the ball with the seam upright and to place the index and middle fingers close together at the top of the seam with the thumb gripping the ball at the bottom of the seam.
The image to the right shows the correct grip.
The first two fingers and the thumb should hold the ball forward of the rest of the hand, and the other two fingers should be tucked into the palm.
The ball is held quite loosely so that it leaves the hand easily.
The bowler usually holds their other hand over the hand gripping the ball until the latest possible moment so that the batsman cannot see what type of ball is being bowled.
Fast bowlers will measure their preferred run up in strides and mark the distance from the wicket.
It is important for the bowler to know exactly how long his or her run-up is because it needs to terminate at the popping crease .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
At the end of the run-up the bowler will bring his lead foot down on the pitch with the knee as straight as possible.
This aids in generating speed but can be dangerous due to the pressure placed on the joint by this action.
Knee injuries are not uncommon amongst fast bowlers: for example, the English pace bowler David Lawrence was sidelined for many months after splitting his kneecap in two.
The pressure on the leading foot is such that some fast bowlers cut the front off their shoes to stop their toes from being injured as they are repeatedly pressed against the inside of the shoe.
The bowler will then bring their bowling arm up over their head and release the ball at the height appropriate to where they want the ball to pitch.
Bending the elbow and "chucking" the ball would make it too easy for the bowler to aim accurately at the batsman's wicket and get them out.
Note the "sling shot" action.
Fast bowlers tend to have an action which leaves them either side-on or chest-on at the end of the run up.
The slinging action generates extra speed, but sacrifices control.
Matthew Hoggard begins his follow-through in training.
After the ball has been released, the bowler "follows through" at the end of his or her action.
Line and length This section does not cite any references  .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
In this context, line refers to the path of the ball towards the batsman, in the horizontal dimension running from the off to the leg side, while length describes the distance the ball travels toward the batsman before bouncing.
The faster the bowler, the harder it is to achieve consistent line and length but sheer speed can make up for the shortfall.
Fast bowlers who also manage to be accurate can be devastatingly effective, for example the likes of Australian pace bowler Glenn McGrath and South African pace bowler Shaun Pollock .
This section does not cite any references  .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Angles are exaggerated.
A good length ball or salmon ball is one that arrives at the batsman at around waist height.
The diagram to the right should help explain what the different lengths mean.
Any ball which is short enough to bounce over the batsman's head is usually called wide by the Umpire .
These are often easier for the batsman to play than the good length because they do not have time to move much after bouncing off the seam and, arriving at the batsmen low to the ground, are ideal for drive strokes.
However, in conditions favourable to swing bowling full pitched bowling gives the ball more time to move through the air challenging the batsman weigh up the risk of being able to play drives against uncertainty about the swing.
Closer still to the batsman's feet is the yorker .

It is because the three effective lengths .
This includes almost all of the league's quarterbacks .
The San Diego Chargers selected promising quarterback Ryan Leaf with the second overall pick, after Peyton Manning .
However, Leaf only managed to play two years with the Chargers and started only 18 games  for them before being released.
Despite being right-handed, Ganguly learnt to bat left-handed so he could use his brother's sporting equipment.
Weeks after his successful tour of England, Ganguly eloped with childhood sweetheart Dona Roy.
The bride and groom's family were sworn enemies at that point and this news caused an uproar between them.
During the final of the Independence Cup at Dhaka in January 1998, India successfully chased down 315 off 48 overs, and Ganguly won the Man of the Match award.
Ganguly was part of the Indian team that competed in the 1999 Cricket World Cup in England.
After Sadagoppan Ramesh was bowled, Ganguly scored 183 from 158 balls, and hit 17 fours and seven sixes.
It became the second highest score in World Cup history and the highest by an Indian in the tournament.
But mutiny was afoot among the lower orders.
In one match Ganguly, after reaching his fifty, raised his bat to the home balcony, only to find it deserted.
He did not inspire at Glamorgan or Northamptonshire either.
At the latter in 2006 he averaged 4.80 from his four first-class appearances."
His Lancashire teammate Andrew Flintoff thought him to be aloof and compared his attitude to that of Prince Charles .
Having been 26 not out overnight, Moeen Ali added another 51 runs on the morning of the second day before he was caught out by Watson off Starc.
A flurry of runs from Haddin and Mitchell Johnson saw Australia pass 300, but the last two wickets fell for just four runs, and Australia were all out for 308, still 122 runs behind England.
He and Root put on 97 for the fourth wicket before Bell was out for 60, bowled by Johnson for the Australian's first wicket of the match, following first-innings figures of 0/111.
Root followed 11 overs later for exactly the same score off exactly the same number of balls, and dismissed in exactly the same manner by Hazlewood.
For his contributions primarily with the bat, but also with the ball, Root was named Man of the Match.
The fourth edition was held in India in 1990-91.
Pakistan had pulled out of the tournament due to strained political relations with India.
India retained its hold on the Asia Cup defeating Sri Lanka in the final.
In 1993, the tournament was cancelled due to strained political relations between India and Pakistan.
India and Sri Lanka made it to the final by virtue of better run rate than Pakistan as all three teams had equal points after the preliminary round.
For the third successive time in the Asia Cup, India defeated Sri Lanka in the final.
The sixth edition was held in Sri Lanka in 1997.
Pakistan and Sri Lanka made it to the final while India only won one match against Bangladesh and did not qualify for the final for the first time.
In the final, Pakistan beat Sri Lanka and lifted the Asia Cup for the first time.
The eighth edition took place in Sri Lanka four years after the seventh edition in 2004.
The top two teams from each group qualified for the Super Four stage where they played each other again once.
The top two teams in the Super Four stage then qualified for the final.
India and Sri Lanka topped the Super Four stage and reached the final.
In the final, Sri Lanka defeated India by 25 runs to win the Asia Cup.
The ninth edition of the Asia Cup was held in Pakistan .
Once again, the 2004 format was retained.
In Group B, India came out on top and entered the Super Fours along with Pakistan in second place.
Sri Lanka and India topped the Super Four stage and entered the final.
Sri Lanka beat India in the final comfortably to equal India with four Asia Cup trophies.
However, his individual performance deteriorated during his captaincy reign, especially after the World Cup, the tour of Australia in 2003 and the Pakistan series in 2004.
Following indifferent form in 2004 and poor form in 2005, he was dropped from the team in October 2005.
Comeback and rift with Greg Chappell In September 2005, Greg Chappell became the coach of India for the tour of Zimbabwe.
Ganguly's dispute with him resulted in many headlines.
For this, performance will be the criteria, applicable to captain, coach and players.
For more detailed advice, see Citing Wikipedia .
Citation styles  for "Siddarth Kaul "You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!===Indian
Two Indian–born Caucasian Australians have previously played Test cricket for Australia, Bransby Cooper in the first ever Test match and Rex Sellers in 1964.(This
Oct 21, 2008: When Dhoni was asked about Zaheer's mastery of reverse-swing after the Mohali victory, he immediately spoke of the example that he's set for everyone else Ponting denies problems with Lee Oct 21, 2008: Ricky Ponting has said there is no problem with his relationship with Brett Lee and he expects the struggling strike bowler to be part of the side for the third Test in Delhi next week.
There are various reasons put forward but IS Bindra, the Punjab Cricket Association chief, conceded the paying public has been "short-changed" in most Indian grounds and he promised to improve conditions in Mohali.
IS Bindra, the Punjab Cricket Association president, said one of the reasons for the disappointing numbers could be the number of matches Mohali hosted last year.
Having reached the ground, the spectator is faced with restrictions on carrying water bottles and umbrellas.
The only covered stands are those for members; non-members sit through the day under the sun, on plastic chairs that can get very uncomfortable in temperatures touching 30 degrees Celsius.
If you can watch Test-match cricket for five days in the air-conditioned comfort of your own home, here you spend two hours getting into the stadium, going through the police,
"It's the pride of the ground, and we take it very seriously.
"So if we rotate the matches, the novelty will still be there.
Money is not everything, money is not an end in itself.
It's good so far as it goes into the game.
The wide shot takes in the empty stands, where only two people sit watching the championship match.
Otherwise, as Bindra said, the public will short-change it.
This section does not cite any references  .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
For fast bowlers, this can be achieved through sheer speed and aggression, rather than trying to make the ball move through the air or off the pitch.
The inswinging yorker is seen as particularly deadly.
This causes two problems for the batsman who receives the ball.
If he or she attempts to play it, their bat will be at eye-level making it difficult for them to watch the ball onto the bat and time their shot correctly.
For this reason, bowling spells containing many bouncers are said to be intimidatory bowling.
Most batsman have panicked and lost their wickets in this fashion several times in their career after prolonged spells of bouncers.
Physically powerful batsmen often attempt to strike the ball on the rise, even though this obstructs their vision of the ball since it is not uncommon that their sheer brute force combined with the speed of the ball will cause it to fly to the boundary.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Sri Lanka and India topped the group stages and entered the final.
Pakistan and Bangladesh qualified to play in the final of the eleventh edition, Bangladesh had beaten India and Sri Lanka to book its place in the final for the first time in the history of the tournament.
Misbah-ul-Haq is the second Asia cup victorious captain in the history of Pakistan cricket after Moin Khan .
The tournament consisted of five teams with Afghanistan in it for the first time since its inception in 1984.
The 2016 edition of the Asia Cup tournament will be held in Bangladesh for the third consecutive time from 24th February to 6th March.
The 2014 Asia Cup was the twelfth edition of the Asia Cup cricket tournament.
Pakistan were the defending champions, having won the previous tournament .
Sri Lanka Beat Pakistan in the final to become Asia Cup champions for the fifth time.
This article needs additional citations for verification .
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
The ratings were developed at the suggestion of Ted Dexter in 1987.
Initially the rankings were for Test cricket only, but separate One Day International rankings were introduced in 1998.
Both sets of rankings have now been calculated back to the start of those forms of the game.
The first tournament was played in Denmark in 1996.
The tournament was won by Ireland after beating the Netherlands in the final.
The teams from the previous tournaments were joined by France and Germany .
The tournament was won by the hosts, the Netherlands .
The Divisional structure was tightened for this tournament, with teams from the two divisions not playing each other.
The teams from the previous tournament were this time joined by Greece and Portugal .
The tournament was played in Scotland and was again won by the Netherlands.
The second division was won by Gibraltar.
The second division was again won by Gibraltar.
In this year, the two Divisions were played in two different countries.
By 2009, all five divisions contained six teams.
He attended alongside Jacques Rudolph, Heino Kuhn and Francois du Plessis, fellow Titans and South African international cricketers.
At his school he was part of the school's U-14 cricket team.
Rugby was the most followed sport at his school so he took it up too.
He was shortlisted for South Africa's junior national hockey team.
He returned to play rugby when he stopped with hockey.
He was soon part of the school's rugby team, the 1st XV of the Affies.
De Villiers became the second youngest and second fastest South African to reach 1000 test runs after Graeme Pollock and in his test career so far has batted, bowled and kept wicket as well.
He also played for Carrickfergus Cricket Club in Northern Ireland as their overseas player in 2004.
He made an impression opening the batting, but was dropped down the order for the second test and also handed the wicket-keeping gloves.
However, he found himself at the top of the order again for the final test of the series and has played the majority of his tests there.
This has also led people to make further comparisons of him to Jonty Rhodes as he was also one of the finest fielders of his generation.
Indeed, it was around the time De Villiers got out  when South Africa lost their rhythm and went on to lose the game.
De Villiers only scored 11 runs though in the second Test at the Melbourne Cricket Ground and made another low score in the first innings of the final Test at the Sydney Cricket Ground .
AB de Villiers training with South Africa in 2009.
However, he went on to make 36*, 80, 84, and 38, and was named Player of the Series at the conclusion of game 5.  5.He was rested for the two-match Twenty20 series against Zimbabwe and because Mark Boucher was injured as well Heino Kuhn donned the keeping gloves.
Against Pakistan in October 2010His major challenge came against Pakistan for the two Twenty20 matches, where he kept wicket.
In the second T20I he scored 11 runs.
During the third match he scored 19 before he was stumped by Zulqarnain Haider .
He played for the Delhi Daredevils in the previous seasons.
AB de Villiers scored two successive centuries in the 2011 World Cup .
He also became the 16th batsman to score two or more centuries in one World Cup tournament.
AB de Villiers' strike rate of 136.73 is the highest among South African batsmen who have scored centuries in World Cup matches .
With his third player of the match award in World Cups, de Villiers is joint second with Jacques Kallis on the list of South African players with most match awards in World Cups.
The official website of the tournament is www.iplt20.com .
This section does not cite any references  .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
The board also announced enhanced anti-corruption measures, including two more security personnel with each team.
It also banned two club owners, Gurunath Meiyappan and Raj Kundra, for life, due to their involvement in betting.
These judgements can be considered as the aftermath of previous years' spot-fixing issues.
His mother Lata died in an accident in 2005.
The trauma of his mother's death almost made him quit cricket.
He lives in Jamnagar .
Jadeja made his first Under-19 appearance for India in 2005 at the age of 16.
He was picked in the Indian squad for the 2006 U/19 Cricket World Cup in Sri Lanka.
He was the vice-captain of the victorious Indian team at the 2008 U/19 Cricket World Cup .
He plays for West Zone in the Duleep Trophy and for Saurashtra in the Ranji Trophy .
His third came against Railways in December 2012, in which he scored 331 runs in 501 balls.
Jadeja reached this milestone at the young age of only 23.
In the 2009 World Twenty20, Jadeja was criticized for not scoring fast enough in India's loss to England.
His best bowling is 4–32.
Arriving at the crease with India 58–5 after 19 overs, he scored 78, adding 112 with skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni and 59 off only 5.1 overs with Ravichandran Ashwin to help his side reach 234–7 in 50 overs.
India went on to win the game and Jadeja was awarded Man of the Match, mainly for his fielding efforts.
This performance earned Jadeja the Man of the Match award.
In the historic 4–0 home Test series win against Australia in February–March 2013, Jadeja took 24 wickets, dismissing the Australian captain Michael Clarke five out of six times in the series which cemented his place in the team as an all-rounder despite not contributing much with the bat.
Jadeja is the first India bowler to top the rankings since Anil Kumble, who topped the table in 1996.
He is the fourth India bowler after Kapil Dev, Maninder Singh and Kumble to be ranked No. 1. Jadeja scored his maiden test fifty on 20 July 2014 playing against England saving the match for India who were struggling at 235/7.
He made 68 runs from just 57 balls.
Ravindra Jadeja was selected by the Rajasthan Royals for the inaugural season of the Indian Premier League .
It hurts him that early reports suggested he was sacked, or, to use popular parlance, "the first casualty of the two whitewashes".
Had the results of his work as bowling coach been more conspicuous, he may not have minded such suggestions as much.
There are contrasting views on Simons.
The players all praise him, which is why his contract was extended in the first place.
In what was, in all likelihood, Simons' final press conference as India bowling coach, he spoke at length about various issues and bowlers.
He disagrees with the notion that Ishant does not know how to take wickets.
He insists Ishant has worked on his game, bowling six to 18 inches fuller on the Australia tour than he previously did, and that he has been unlucky.
He says Sreesanth is one of the most skilled bowlers he has worked with, but the fact that he could not inculcate consistency in him was something that disappointed him.
Here are some excerpts from the press conference.
In one of the first series  versus South Africa, in the Test we won in Kolkata, he bowled brilliantly but didn't get the rewards he deserved.
You could see his frustration.
We know that the Australians were pleased he wasn't involved in the one-day series.
For Ishant to hit the stumps, he has to pitch it fuller, and that means the batsman has more chance of keeping it out.
He has to find the right mix of deliveries to bowl.
Can one be unlucky for so long?In the past, maybe you could make the point that he was not really that unlucky; but in the series against Australia, the nick that went between Laxman and Dhoni, the balls that looped and dropped safe, ones that hit the splice and did not go to hand, they were really down to poor luck.
I really do believe he was unlucky.
I hope he is not discouraged.
I hope Indian cricket sticks with him.
They have got an incredible cricketer in him.
We worked on getting his length right.
It is not always that easy, you know.
He wants to play one-day cricket.
At that stage that was probably the right decision.
I think he is bowling exceptionally well.
It is all about control and confidence.
You are at the nets, you know the guy, you know he is ready and when to let him go, and when not to.
Maybe being conservative with Ishant is the way the selectors want to go.
I think he is ready, but that's the selectors' decision.
You were so impressed with Munaf Patel.
That counted in someone like RP's favour.
If you have bowlers who are all similar then the batsman never has to change his angle or think differently.
I have not met someone with the skill of Sreesanth.
His skills are phenomenal.
You need consistency.
There is no point in bowling three or four good balls in an over, and then letting the batsmen off the hook.
You watch Ben Hilfenhaus.
His plan was very simple and was very successful too.
I disagree about Ishant, though.
We needed the pace back.
In this series against Australia he was bowling at 140-plus again.
Our attack was probably quicker than the Australian attack, which is quite unusual for an Indian attack.
I started working with him two years ago, at the Delhi Daredevils.
So often on television people say his wrist is collapsing.
To me that's commentary.
How you fix it is coaching.
He was given drills two years ago, and he has performed them diligently.
He is now bowling this beautiful away swing at 145kph-plus, he is an incredible athlete, and he has got incredible stamina and strength.
I just think, as he grows and understands his craft better, he is going to get better.
He is one of the most exciting bowlers in the world today, not just in India.
I don't know what happened with other young bowlers.
Each one is going to have different stories about what happened and what didn't happen.
How has it been working with Zaheer, who has been in and out of the side?One of the things that is very encouraging is how fit Zaheer is looking at the moment and how excited he is about playing cricket again.
What about the spinners?R Ashwin has been bowling really well.
We weren't able to pick two spinners.
It's more about individuals growing as cricketers and people.
I think from that perspective I'll walk away feeling that I've made some contribution, and take some pleasure and enjoyment out of that.
What are your future plans?I've been appointed head coach of the Delhi Daredevils, so that'll be my next assignment in the cricketing world.
He made his debut in Indian Premier League in 2014, playing for Sunrisers Hyderabad .
Playing for South Zone in the final of the 2014–15 Duleep Trophy against Central Zone, Rahul scored 185 off 233 balls in the first innings and 130 off 152 balls in the second.
After an excellent domestic season in 2014, Rahul was picked in the Indian Test squad for the Australian tour .
He made his Test Debut in the Boxing Day Test Match beginning on 26 December 2014 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground .
He replaced Rohit Sharma and was handed over the Test cap by MS Dhoni .
He retained his place for the fourth test played at Sydney Cricket Ground .
He open the inning with Murali Vijay and made 110 runs, his maiden International hundred.
But he did not show any progress in the first match where he got out early in both innings for less than 10 runs.
In the second match of the series, Shikhar Dhawan lost his place due to injury and ruled out from the rest of the tour.
By the time he put AB in the shade, he had already gone past 200.
The autumns of the two batting patriarchs of our age couldn't have been more different though.
With the team winning next to nothing and seldom coming close, Lara went out and expressed himself.
Even his Australian swansong was indicative of that, with the 226 runs amassed from just 298 balls in truly buccaneering fashion.
The team may have been mediocre beyond belief, but Lara refused to be shackled by their limitations.
An often-solitary beacon capable of ravishing strokeplay when in his pomp, he has seldom enthralled over the past half decade.
For the most part though, he became an efficient accumulator, albeit with troughs that were so uncommon during the halcyon years.
His life became reality TV, and all that was needed was the Police to reassemble and sing Every Breath You Take for the soundtrack.
Newspapers would publish illustrations from Grey's Anatomy, while TV anchors would steel themselves to say "superior labral antero posterior tear.
The career graph dipped, as it inevitably does even with the all-time greats, but he was still good enough to score 494 runs in Australia last winter.
Such comparisons are unfair though.
We're fortunate to have watched them both.
But he lost form the following season and played little first-class cricket thereafter.
While the teams still debate who came out on top following the opening draw, one thing that isn't in doubt is some major and minor concerns for the tourists.
Stuart," Siddle said, "but I'm really pleased to be called up for my country and to get the chance to the wear the baggy green.
"He will keep running in for you.
Matthew was in the nets for an hour-and-a-half yesterday working on different things, making sure he got his volume of work done," Ponting said.
Michael Clarke was the same, so it's good to see the guys who missed out in the Test are taking it upon themselves to get stuck in and get their batting work up.
Mohali pitch spent time under the covers again on Thursday morning due to light rain, but despite the extra moisture Ponting does not expect it to help the fast bowlers.
I don't think there's going to be much assistance for the quicks at all,
"I saw the groundsman interviewed on TV and he said he made the wicket to suit their spinners.
I really wanted to establish myself in Test cricket "On the first day in Mohali, India passed milestone after milestone: Sachin Tendulkar became Test cricket's highest run-scorer and took his tally past 12,000, while Sourav Ganguly notched up 7000.
Such records inevitably fall by the wayside during long enough careers.
There was one milestone, however, that was missed by India, and also by Gautam Gambhir.
He came into this Test averaging 36 which isn't bad but it doesn't do justice to the kind of form he's been in.
And openers averaging 36 aren't rated much either.
When openers are judged, and when they're selected or dropped, it's the hundreds that count.
The near-misses are forgotten for they are merely starts which haven't been converted.
And Gambhir had only one century to show for his 18 Tests.

He drove balls bowled at speeds approaching 150km with authority but, after shifting to fourth gear, he switched back to first and got stuck.

In Test cricket it's important to get big runs," Gambhir said.
"It's not like you will be getting starts in each game and each innings; there will be times when you will get out early.
Test team was via the Twenty20 and one-day route, formats in which he's thrived and scored runs, even against Australia.
However, he knows that Test cricket is the real deal.
I really wanted to establish myself in Test cricket.
He clipped Cameron White towards the midwicket boundary and started celebrating even before completing the single that would take him to 100.
The third ball of his second innings was full and wide and Gambhir freed his arms and square drove it.
Soon he started walking down the wicket and toyed with the bowlers.
They knew their weaknesses and were quick to go on the defensive.
They are friends off the field and on it.
Both are aggressive although in different ways.
Their understanding is so good that calling is redundant; eye contact is often enough.
Viru  is batting at the other end," Gambhir said.
"It is always difficult when you are playing the new ball.
He is one person you can share your thoughts with.
So far it has been working out well."Another of Gambhir's good friends is only one Test old.
Mishra has spent years feeling happy about his friend's inclusion in the national side.
"I used to sit in front of the TV set in hope that maybe this time my name would be there.
Lillee immediately phoned Rod Marsh, who was then the Australian Academy head coach, and Johnson was quickly headed to Adelaide and the national under-19 team.
India finally went on to win the match to level the series and Rahul named as the man of the match.
Rahul hails from Mangalore .
His mother, Rajeshwari, is an associate professor at Mangalore University ’s undergraduate college.
The winning team is the one that scores more runs in their two innings.
A team's innings ends in one of the following ways: The team is "all out".
The team's captain declares the innings closed, usually because they believe they have enough runs.
A declaration before the innings starts is called an innings forfeiture.
The team batting fourth score the required number of runs to win.
The prescribed time for the match expires.
This is called enforcing the follow on .
During the 2nd test between England and New Zealand at Headingley, Leeds, 24–28 May 2013, England batted first after the first day was lost because of rain.
New Zealand, batting second, scored 180 runs fewer than England, meaning England could have enforced the follow on, though chose not to.
This is similar to four-day first class cricket, where the follow on can be enforced if the difference is 150 runs or fewer.
The roughened, softer surface of an old ball can be more conducive to spin bowlers, or those using reverse swing .
The captain may delay the decision to take the new ball if he wishes to continue with his spinners .
A Test match may end in one of six results :All four innings are complete.
The team batting fourth are all out before overtaking the other team, usually before matching the other team's score.
The team batting in the fourth innings overtakes the opposing team's run total.
The third innings concludes with the team that batted twice still trailing the team that batted once.
This usually occurs at the end of the last day of the match.
The match is abandoned because the ground is declared unfit for play.
The number of matches in Test series has varied from one to seven.
Up until the early 1990s,  Test series between international teams were organised between the two national cricket organisations with umpires provided by the home team.
Early international cricket was disrupted by the French Revolution and the American Civil War .
The Australian Aborigines team became the first organised overseas cricketers to tour England in 1868 .
Grace's tour fell through and it was Lillywhite's team that toured New Zealand and Australia in 1876–77.
The first match was won by Australia, by 45 runs, and the second by England.
The series of 1884–85 was the first to be held over five matches: Shaw, writing in 1901, considered the side to be "the best ever to have left England.
".The first Test series not to involve Australia occurred in 1888–89, as an understrength England side toured South Africa.
England defeated West Indies by two runs in Sydney when, West Indies requiring three runs to win from the final ball of the match, England captain Mike Brearley pushed all of his fieldsmen, including the wicket-keeper, back to the boundary.
This was one of cricket's most controversial moments of all time.
The record stood until 1992.
This is the still currently the fastest 50 in Australian Tri-Series matches.
West Indies were the first team to go through the qualifying round unbeaten by winning all 10 matches.
This season was the first time the 4-times Tri-Series champions, West Indies did not make the finals as England beat Australia 2–0.
Mike Gatting 's side also won that season's Ashes Test match series and the Perth Challenge one day tournament.
Australian fans loudly booed this unsatisfactory conclusion, and criticism from the media led to the average run rate method being replaced by the most productive overs method for setting revised targets in interrupted matfive awards.
In the 2011–12 South African summer, de Villiers featured in the home series against Australia and against Sri Lanka .
He was named the Player of the Series, having scored 353 runs at an average of 117.66.
With this feat, he became the record holder for the fastest 50, 100, and 150 in One-Day International history.
Under the captaincy of de Villiers, South Africa qualified for the semi-finals of the World Cup, but lost to New Zealand in the match.
De Villiers finished the tournament as the third highest rungetter with 482 runs behind Martin Guptill and Kumar Sangakkara .
He has also played for Hampshire in the English County Championship in 2005.
He regards Terry Alderman as one of his mentors.
Watson in 2005Watson was selected for his first Australian team in early 2002, being selected to tour South Africa with the Test team after topping the Pura Cup wicket-taking charts for Tasmania, as well as steady middle-order batting performances.
Australian captain at the time Steve Waugh stated that Watson would possibly be Australia's first genuine all rounder since Keith Miller and Alan Davidson in the 1950s.
Watson expressed joy at being selected in an Australian team with Waugh, whom he cited as his idol.
During this time he smashed an unbeaten 300* for his club side, Lindisfarne .
Watson was again replaced by Symonds and was unable to represent Australia for the remainder of the summer.
He was recalled for the one day squad for the 2006 tour of South Africa but was dropped when all-rounder Andrew Symonds returned from injury.
Watson with Australia in 2009Watson had been previously criticised for his relatively flat bowling trajectory and inability to move the ball, reflected in his relatively high bowling average.
In the competition he impressed with both the ball and bat, as Australia moved to their first Champions Trophy victory.
Critics and captain Ricky Ponting cited his better strike rate, straight hitting and the ability to bowl as the reasons why he was selected ahead of Katich.
These remain the most economical bowling figures in one-day international history .
Ajit Agarkar recorded bowling figures of 6/42 from 9.3 overs against Australia at the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
It was the first and, to date, only six wicket haul in an Australian Tri-series match.
Dhoni thought clearly and led from the front; Ponting was powerless and unsure of both himself and his players Dhoni marshalled his players expertly and batted superbly Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Ricky Ponting might as well come from the same street, the same school, the same suburb.
They emerged from the backwaters and arrived on the cricket scene with sharp minds and hardened games.
As time passed, both learnt to use the right words and sometimes to think the right things, and in Mohali both led their teams onto the field.
Already both had far surpassed the expectations of youth.
Hereafter their fortunes took different courses.
By the end of an extraordinary Test match in the Punjab, Dhoni was praising his players for securing an overwhelming victory, and was also accepting the award as Man of the Match.
His counterpart was left nursing bruised egos and lost souls.
It was not so long ago that the Tasmanian had been comparing the new-age cricket played by his side against the tired old efforts of his opponents.
Seldom has complacency so comprehensively been shattered.
Nor is it wise to tempt fate.
Besides winning the toss Dhoni made two telling moves in the match.
His first intervention came when India were pursuing quick runs in the second innings.
After all, an entire nation was in thrall to them.
But Dhoni knows no such deference.
He respects them, likes them, admires them, but does not live in fear of them.
So he strapped the pads on himself.
As ever, his reasoning was straightforward.
His team needed to push the score along and he was the right man for the job.
Nor did he allow notions of wounded pride to hold him back.
Instead he instructed Sourav Ganguly to follow him to the crease.
After all they had batted fluently in the first dig.
Bold decisions are almost always rewarded.
Dhoni's other significant action in his second outing as Test captain came at the fall of the last Australian wicket.
He did not punch the air with glee or charge towards his players or otherwise display any of the ecstasy detected in the Australians at the end of the travesty in Sydney .
Rather, he picked up one of the stumps, walked quietly across to Gautam Gambhir, whose batting had been so important, and gave it to him.
Gambhir was not surprised.
Apparently stumps were also given to Amit Mishra, Virender Sehwag and Sourav Ganguly.
Doubtless it was appreciated.
Dhoni knows no such deference.
He respects them, likes them, admires them, but does not live in fear of them  Dhoni had every right to be pleased with himself but he did not show it.
Nor did he say anything about captaining the team in the next match.
He does not get carried away.
Afterwards India was ablaze with debate about the rights and wrongs of playing Anil Kumble or Amit Mishra in Delhi.
At such times the choice between newcomer and proven performer, worn-wicket specialist and hard-track tweaker, fit and sore, is especially painful because it is final.
India could also be delighted with the performances of its new-ball pairs.
Ishant Sharma and Zaheer Khan were far more effective than their counterparts.
Gambhir and Sehwag, his pal from Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, Delhi, Delhi Daredevils and India, ran superbly between wickets as they built two damaging partnerships.
Only one of the four played in the Boxing Day Test ten months ago.
No longer was anyone fretting about the supposed Fab Four.
They had taken care of that.
No longer did the Australians seem as formidable.
Previously it has taken astonishing contributions from exceptional players to bring them down.
Always it had been an upset that provoked shock and celebration.
Australia had been massacred.
However, the lasting mark is of him entering at No. 11 and hitting his fifth ball for six.
The recovery begins when he gets through the 2004-05 season with the Bulls and is called up for Australia A's tour of Pakistan.
A tournament in Malaysia is the venue for Johnson to show his potential and he carries on the form in the Champions Trophy.
By the end of the one-day tours he has picked up the memorable wickets of Tendulkar, Dravid, Lara and Pietersen.
He looks nervous, unsure and struggles with his action, but still returns eight wickets in his opening two games.
The stunning display occurs on his new home ground following his move from Brisbane to Perth to be with his fiancée Jessica Bratich.
Unfortunately for Johnson, his 11 wickets for the game can't stop South Africa from chasing down 414.
South Africa were the best batting side in the world when Johnson ripped into them in Durban .
Jason Gillespie was impressed.
After two half-centuries, including an unbeaten 96, earlier in the series, he finished it with his first Test hundred in Cape Town .
In home and away series he had been an all-round star, finishing with 33 wickets in six Tests.
It is not until two Tests later in Leeds that he feels comfortable again, taking five wickets to seal the win .
Seeing Watson relaxed yet committed for so long was strange.
In first-class matches in Australia and England he has scored 12 centuries, including two doubles.
He knows how to bat.
This was his chance to prove it in Tests.
It's not as tough as it's going to get, but it's one of the tougher innings I'll play.
With every over, Watson was scrutinised and for more than four hours and 155 deliveries he succeeded.
Only when he went back to Mishra and the ball stayed low could India remove him.
Sometimes he was so sharp it was like watching the footwork of Michael Clarke.
It's just something I've been working on the last couple of years.
Watson is so regimented, like an amateur golfer trying to remember four coaching tips at once.
Then the downswing starts and everything becomes natural.
He was pleased his technique held up so well under such heavy testing.
In his fifth Test, he took it.
The modern English-Welsh border is also shown.
Little is known about the fort and civilian settlement in the period between the Roman departure from Britain and the Norman Conquest.
The settlement probably shrank in size and may even have been abandoned.
In the absence of Roman rule, Wales was divided into small kingdoms; early on, Meurig ap Tewdrig emerged as the local king in Glywysing .
The area passed through his family until the advent of the Normans in the 11th century.
Original Roman work can, however, still be distinguished in the wall facings.
A small town grew up in the shadow of the castle, made up primarily of settlers from England.
In 1404 Owain Glyndŵr burned Cardiff and took Cardiff Castle.
County town of Glamorganshire John Speed 's map of Cardiff from 1610In 1536, the Act of Union between England and Wales led to the creation of the shire of Glamorgan, and Cardiff was made the county town .
It also became part of Kibbor hundred .
In the ensuing century Cardiff was at peace.
Ricky Ponting finished the match in an entirely different state of mind.
His bowlers had been flogged and there was no respite in sight.
His bowlers had been unable to control, let alone disconcert, their opponents.
Worse, the batting had lacked any sense of rhythm.
No wonder that at the end of the match Ponting looked as miserable as he did.
His team was in trouble and his own game was not working.
Already it was bad enough, but even that was not the end of it.
It is not uncommon for fast bowlers and captains to fall out from time to time.
But this stoush was different because it was between two friends and hurting players.
To his frustration he has not been able to swing the ball or bowl fast or accurately enough to pin the batsmen down.
Captaining strong teams is relatively easy.
Leaders of losing outfits require degrees in psychology, medicine, law, labour relations, mathematics and much else.
Yet it was not Lee that was the problem.
It was the other experienced campaigners he relied on in tough times, Matthew Hayden and Andrew Symonds.
Ponting was not on top of himself or his senior players.
Despite their similarities, the contrast with his counterpart could not have been greater.
As so often, the story of the cricket match was the tale of two captains.
There were 130 runs at five an over in the first session and the rate was maintained later, with 214 runs eventually plundered from 42 overs.
It made no difference if it was pace or spin.
The leading fast bowler was taken for 72 from his 14 overs, and the spinners were carted for 54 from nine.
Who else could we talking about but Australia?
On Monday morning though, the other side came out swinging and Australia were left bereft of answers.
Since the Ashes were surrendered to an English side that dared to set the tone on an astonishing opening day at Edgbaston, Australia have seldom been challenged.
Again, someone had wrenched the conducting baton out of Australian hands, and the big boys couldn't play.
He made sure India didn't overdo it either.
With runs coming so easily, the batsmen must have been queuing up, but the declaration came well before tea, leaving India with 136 overs to ensure that their dominance of the game was translated into the right result.
Australia's chase was in ruins within 10.2 overs.
There had been signs in the morning that they were losing the plot.
There was an animated argument between Ricky Ponting and Brett Lee before lunch, presumably something to do with the fact that the leader of the pace pack wasn't required to bowl until after everyone has finished their roti and butter chicken.
And that simmering rage seemed to afflict the batting as well.
It was as if he wanted to hit every delivery into the cement moat that rings the venue.
The answer, about 21 hours before the captains walked out for the toss, was the same as it was in Kanpur earlier this year.
It's 24 hours before the match, so we'll just wait and see how it responds,
He didn't play in Kanpur, and we'll know only at the toss tomorrow if he does here.
Yesterday he hadn't even bowled at the nets.
Today he said he did, in the privacy of the indoor nets.
India go into an important Test match with more questions than answers, in contrast to their opponets.
Stuart Clark, one of Australia's main bowlers, was injured during the Bangalore Test.
The replacement for Kumble, if needed, both as player and captain, will get to know about an hour before the match.
Going by the Kanpur precedent, Mahendra Singh Dhoni should lead the side if Kumble is not fit to play.
The rains have meant the pitch has stayed under the covers for too long, and hasn't had the desired amount of sunlight.
The curator expects the pitch to be sluggish until, as he hopes, the sun beats down on it consistently.
Again, there are two ways of looking at the sluggish pitch.
The pace bowlers might not get the kind of carry.
This is also the venue where Munaf made his promising debut two years ago.
One of them is in his last series, the other is three Tests short of 100.
Even though the batsmen did enough in Bangalore to save the Test and their places in the side, the bowling attack didn't look potent enough to force the issue.
This pitch here is expected to be better for batting.
L Balaji, Irfan Pathan and Zaheer Khan had done well then to bowl Pakistan out on the first day but in the second innings, when the pitch became easier to bat on, India couldn't bowl Pakistan out.
Pakistan started the fifth day 53 runs ahead with four wickets in hand.
Kumble managed two wickets on the fifth day, but the match was saved by Abdul Razzaq and Kamran Akmal.
The pitches in India have, however, changed since.
It takes an extremely critical eye to diminish his run-scoring achievements, which seem to collect new records in every series.
There is no doubt about his greatness after taking guard, but his leadership has been under scrutiny for much of his reign.
Those results didn't stop him from becoming the most successful captain in Test history after passing Steve Waugh's 41 wins in the 2009-10 Boxing Day Test.
In the same match he overtook Shane Warne's 92 victories as the most by an individual, and he led Australia to 26 consecutive undefeated  World Cup games.
He stepped down from the captaincy when that run ended, in the 2011 World Cup.
Acclaimed by Academy coach Rod Marsh as the best teenage batsman he had ever seen, Ponting began with Tasmania at 17 and Australia at 20, and was given out unluckily for 96 on his Test debut.
There have been setbacks against probing seam attacks, high-class finger-spin and, latterly, short balls, which he insists are meant to be pulled or hooked.
Ricky Ponting makes his first-class debut for Tasmania at the age of 17.
He is the youngest player to represent Tasmania in the Sheffield Shield.
Rudi Koertzen was alert to it when Simon Katich wanted to go for one such break during the first session today.
Brett Lee has taken quite well to Mohali.
It's time for Sachin Tendulkar to join the Australian media in complaining about Sourav Ganguly's delaying tactics.
That ended the possibility of getting in an extra over before tea, and Ganguly blocked the rest of the over out.
In the next over, Tendulkar managed another single, and went off to spend 20 more minutes as the second-highest run-getter in the world.
It set off fireworks in celebration, during the day, would you believe it?
There was nothing but smoke and noise for three minutes.
Play, obviously, was held up all that while.
Gautam Gambhir, on 42 when the over started, had other ideas.
He stepped out twice and lofted Clarke for two boundaries in the over and reached his half-century before the break.
It was an unsettling blow, in the second over of the innings, but Gambhir came back well from it.
How frustrating is it to edge an innocuous ball, going down the leg side, minding its own business?
Brad Haddin whipped the bails, but Koertzen thought Ganguly was back in time, and didn't go the third umpire.
He didn't raise his bat after that, neither did he take his helmet off.
One of the typically earthy ones is, "Vekhi ja, par chedi na ."
When was the last time Australia were so dominated?
One has to go back more than 10 years, to the same opposition and country, to Eden Gardens 1997-98.
So long ago that only five players, on both sides, from that Test played in this match.
Between Eden Gardens and Mohali, Australia played 117 matches, losing 15, without being so completely outplayed even once.
Contrast this with Eden Gardens 1998, when India played with three spinners, and Sourav Ganguly opened the bowling.
Over the last five days, though, and on the same pitch, the ball would lose all potency the moment it was handled by Australian bowlers.
To be fair to the Australians, this isn't the same team that dominated the world over the last decade.
And India are the only team who constantly threaten to outskill them: once it was their mysterious spin bowling and imperious batting, here the biggest difference between the teams was the quality of the pace bowling.
While Australia struggled for any disconcerting movement, the Indian bowlers got prodigious swing, both conventional and reverse.
While the one Australia used was scuffed up all over, the one India used had two markedly different sides, shiny and rough.
And since it's still hard and new that early, as MS Dhoni suggested, it was all the more difficult to face.
The ball  that got me would get me 95 times out of 100,
The batsmen and the spinners did their job too.
Gautam Gambhir and Virender Sehwag gave India two fiery starts, putting Australia on the back foot right away.
Right from the toss, India did little wrong.
The one potentially distracting period was when Tendulkar moved towards his record but India regrouped well.
You could say they had nine potential Man-of-the-Match wiup and missed two matches of the Super 8's before returning in fine style smashing an unbeaten 65 off 32 balls against New Zealand.
He was then out of action for the 2007–08 Australian season.
After Symonds was omitted from the Australian team for disciplinary reasons, and Watson took the all rounder's position for the tour of India in late-2008, batting at No. 6.
He later pleaded guilty and was banned for one match.
After returning to Australia, Symonds was recalled to the Test team and both all rounders played in the First Test against New Zealand in Brisbane.
After the match, which Australia won, Watson was dropped as spinner Nathan Hauritz was included and Symonds retained.
Shane Watson in 2012He returned to the Australian Test side for the 3rd Ashes Test match at Edgbaston on 30 July 2009 when he replaced opener Phillip Hughes who had been struggling for form.
He scored his second highest Test score of 96 against the West Indies in the Second Test in Adelaide in December 2009.
In the Third Test, he made 89 in another century stand with Katich.
In the second innings, he removed opposition captain Chris Gayle and then charged towards him, screaming in celebration directly in front of him.
On Day four, Watson finally made his first Test hundred.
He went to lunch sitting on 98* and including the lunch break was stuck in the 90s for 106 minutes.
After the lunch break he got to 99, and was then stuck there and could only get dot balls.
He brought up his debut Test century in interesting style, hitting the ball hard to Abdur Rauf at point who put the catch down.
The ball spilled away and gave Watson enough time to run through for the single he needed.
When Ponting declared, he remained not out, making 120.
Watson was awarded man of the match on 30 December for his role in Australia's Test victory.
During this Test, the Australian Cricket Media Association presented Watson with Australian Cricketer of the Year Award.
His first sporting love was tennis with his idol being Pete Sampras .
Johnson subsequently played for the Australian Under-19 side that toured England in 1999, however recurrent back injuries hampered his prospects.
He recovered to start his first-class career two years later, when he was selected to play state cricket for his native Queensland .
Melbourne in ashes 2013Johnson switched from the Queensland Bulls to the Western Warriors on 25 July 2008.
Johnson was chosen to be in the squad for the first Ashes Test beginning on 23 November 2006, but was 12th man in all of the games.
Johnson went on to take 4/96 in the match.
On the second day of the First Test against South Africa in Perth on 18 December 2008 Johnson took seven wickets for just 12 runs, including five wickets for two runs near the close, to reduce the tourists from 3/234 to 8/241.
He ended with 8/61 the next day.
Despite this performance, Australia went on to lose the test.
Later in the series he made 64 batting with Michael Clarke.
The 2009 tour to South Africa saw an important development in Johnson's armoury, the ability to consistently swing the ball into the right-hander, which he previously had struggled to achieve.
During the First Test, on 27 February 2009, Johnson scored 96 not out, to help Australia post 466 all out.
He also took eight wickets with the ball.
After this, notable cricket commentator Peter Roebuck described him as the best fast bowler in the world.
In the Third Test, with Australia almost defeated, he struck 123 not out, reaching triple figures in only 66 balls.
And so came an over rate of 12 to 12.5 for an hour.
Don't know how the Australian papers, the sensationalist ones, will see it, though.
Mitchell Johnson was very lucky with the down-the-leg-side dismissals in the first innings.
That was on the first day, Johnson tried it to similar effect today.
Just in case Foster's use it, they know where the copyright lies.
Suicide, and how?Chasing 516, Matthew Hayden and Simon Katich came out swinging.
The first ball of the innings was hit over mid-off, not convincingly at all.
So while he scored 29 off 20 balls, he was not playing his natural game.
He looked to manufacture shots, and minutes before tea he had tried one shot too many.
The sadder part was, he perhaps pulled Katich with himself.
But the umpire, Asad Rauf, didn't think so.
Ponting did all the talking, and Sehwag did all the shaking of the head.
Don't know what the minutes of that conversation were, but if Ponting had suggested Sehwag to walk if he had edged, it had some effect on the latter.
The next time Sehwag edged, he walked.
Both teams will, however, need to rework their plans of attack to land the first punch in the series.
All of their batsmen, however, with the exceptions of Matthew Hayden and Michael Clarke, made runs: Ricky Ponting and Michael Hussey scored maiden Test centuries in India, while Shane Watson and Brad Haddin allayed concerns about an untested lower-middle order.
India's biggest problem is the fitness of their captain Anil Kumble.
He bowled during an indoor net session on Thursday but will decide on his participation in the Test only on the morning of the match.
The build-up to the first Test in Bangalore was unusually quiet.
By the end of the match, however, tensions were simmering: Zaheer said the Australians were defensive; Ponting brushed aside the comments; and Kumble was writing indignant columns in response to media speculation about his future.
Normal service, it seems, has been resumed.
Hayden's imposing style of batting will be crucial to the tempo of the Australian innings.
Michael Hussey: Hayden and Ponting are Australia's high-profile batsmen but Hussey is the fulcrum of the line-up.
His ability to string partnerships together with the lower order ensures extra depth in Australia's batting line-up.
Kumble: If he plays, Kumble will be under intense scrutiny especially after his outburst against the media.
Kumble didn't bowl until late Australia's second innings and also dropped two catches.
Zaheer and Ishant Sharma: Spin was touted as India's strength in the lead-up to the series but Zaheer and Ishant took 13 out of 16 Australian wickets in Bangalore.
They bowled accurately with the new ball and got the old one to reverse early and unsettle the batsmen.
If Kumble plays India will name an unchanged XI.
However, if he pulls out India are likely to change their two-spinner strategy and play Munaf Patel as the third fast bowler.
Clark's elbow injury has given Victoria fast bowler Peter Siddle the opportunity to make his debut.
He's been preferred over left-arm swing bowler Doug Bollinger to complete the four-man pace attack.
It's been raining in Mohali but the forecast for the Test is more promising.
"Heavy rains came down as recentlynners, something we rarely see with the Indian team.
Once it was India's mysterious spin bowling and imperious batting that undid opponents, here the biggest difference between the teams was the quality of the pace bowling It can be argued the destruction started even before the toss.
Perhaps Zaheer Khan had sensed in Bangalore that this Australian team could do with some dominating .
The debate over who won the moral victory in Bangalore can continue but it's clear who gained more from that result.
Two moments summed up the match for India and Australia.
One of them came early on the second day.
India had contrived to keep Australia in the game on day one, even though the latter chased leather throughout the day.
The inevitable soon happened and, as it usually happens in India, it happened too fast once it started.
Naturally Dhoni was pleased with his team's effort.
I've never seen anything like that,
"Especially at one time in the first innings, they were 22 from 13 overs.
Indian team is playing, don't bet on it.
They had one legspinner already  because Australia have many left-handers.
September 3, and by October 17, the circumstances had changed.
Sooner or later the cupboard will open permanently for legspinning hopefuls, with Kumble at the twilight of his career.
How many spinners have made their debut for India, with the ticker showing 300 first-class wickets to their name already?
In the last eight years, he has come close, without actually making it.
Even now, Chawla has been talked of as India's next big spinner after Kumble.
When Chawla failed to make the cut, Pragyan Ojha went to Sri Lanka.
Mishra's big heart shows in his bowling.
The heavy bats be damned.
Legspin is not the job of one who worries about the consequence.
Even when he moved away from Delhi, where he wasn't selected for the Under-17 team in 2000, the consequences were not on his mind.
Twenty20 cricket is threatening to take the oomph out of legspin bowling, but even in that format he succeeded because he was not afraid to give it air, much like Shane Warne.
It's fitting he bowled like the man who inspired him to take up legspin, after that mesmerising delivery which stunned Mike Gatting in the 1993 Ashes.
I watched it in awe, and it was magic for me,
The inspired selection was not the only reason for Narendra Hirwani's pleasure.
One of the main criticisms Mishra has drawn in domestic cricket is that he is slow in the air, and that takes the sting out of the turn he gets.
"But the main thing was to keep the head still.
That way you push the ball through, as opposed to flighting it.
Mishra managed both types of deliveries to near perfection in his first bowling effort.
That was followed by the deadly googly, from round the stumps, in the last over before stumps on the second day.
Michael Clarke had fallen in the last over again, like he had in Bangalore.
Mahendra Singh Dhoni had picked Mishra ahead of Munaf Patel, who had himself made an impressive debut at the same venue against England two years ago.
That confidence didn't show when Dhoni refused singles with Mishra, the No. 11, at the other end.
He would spend his life building the Cardiff docks and would later be called "the creator of modern Cardiff".
A permanent military presence was established in the town with the completion of Maindy Barracks in 1877.
By 1936, their trade was less than half its value in 1913, reflecting the slump in demand for Welsh coal .
Caernarfon had also vied for this title.
Cardiff therefore celebrated two important anniversaries in 2005.
The city was county town of Glamorgan until the council reorganisation in 1974 paired Cardiff and the now Vale of Glamorgan together as the new county of South Glamorgan .
Dhawal Sunil Kulkarni is an Indian cricketer as well as first class cricketer .
He took 5/33 against the Services in the Semi-final, after scoring 20* in the 1st innings.
He went on to fox Cameron White and Peter Siddle with the googly.
Although he took three of them with the wrong 'un, it was sparingly used.
Watson had frustrated India long enough to give them nightmares about their past failures to mop up the tail.
The beauty of the Mishra story, though, is that the legspinner could change again once Kumble is fit.
And Mishra's big heart will be tested one more time.
At least he has shown that borrowed it might be, but the cap fits.
Feisty and firm, capricious and correct, insatiable and insecure, Gautam Gambhir was one of the most complete batsmen between 2008 and the 2011 World Cup.
He opened well in all three forms of the game.
Either side of that period, though, lived disappointment with his technical flaws dominating his other attributes.
Gambhir almost didn't make it, "not wanting to play anymore" when he was dropped for the 2007 World Cup.
For about eight first years of his career, he was the domestic cheque that would not be honoured at international level.
Test fifties against Murali and Mendis in the summer of Murali and Mendis in 2008 told him he belonged.
In his next 13 Tests, he scored eight centuries: centuries to set up wins, centuries to bat opposition out, and centuries to hold on for draws, including the near 11-hour marathon in Napier.
As the Indian Test side went from sublime to ridiculous, Gambhir's failures went unpunished.
Goes on to make 82 off 49 balls.
With 523 runs at 87.16, is the highest scorer in the World Cup held in India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.
India win the home-series 2-1.
Makes 136 chasing 271 in Chennai against Pakistan with an injured back.
India win 2-1, denying Australia the "final frontier.
".Becomes the first player to score 10,000 runs in one-day cricket in the course of his 139 against Australia in Indore.
Is cautioned and fined by match referee Mike Denness for trying to "change the condition of the ball" during the Port Elizabeth Test.
It also highlights the start of his discomfort against left-arm spinners.
Overtakes Don Bradman's tally of 29 Test centuries, misses double-century by seven at Headingley, but India win by an innings and 46 runs.
His 98 against Pakistan in an exceptionally anticipated match is one of the best knocks played by Indians at World Cups.
Even though Australia are the champions, he is named the Man of the Series.
Finally offers to pay the $245,000 duty, which is covered for by Fiat.
Later says he was surprised the Indian team declared with him so close to the double-century.
Becomes the fifth man to score 10,000 Test runs in course of his 52 against Pakistan in Kolkata.
India win the match by 195 runs.
India lose the match by D/L method.
Scores two centuries in the two following Tests.
World Cup glory, at last After five unsuccessful attempts, Tendulkar finally gets his hands on the World Cup trophy as India win the tournament in style.
He contributes handsomely to the win, scoring hundreds against England and South Africa, 85 in the semi-final against Pakistan, and is the second-highest run-getter in the tournament with 482 at an average of 53.55.
During the course the tournament, he also becomes the first batsman to score 2000 runs and six centuries in World Cup matches.
Goodbye to Tests Having played 198 Tests, Tendulkar announces his retirement from his only active international format.
With two Tests coming up against West Indies, he says his 200th Test will be his last.
Prev Showing 16 of 17 Next »An emotional India bids farewell to Tendulkar on his home ground at the Wankhede Stadium, as West Indies lose the Test in seven sessions.
Tendulkar battles for nearly four hours, grimly but never dourly, and ends the day with 119.
India lose only one more wicket, ending up with 343.
With one more session, they might even have won.
The fastest pitch in Australia has been reserved for the last Test.
India have been beaten already, only humiliation awaits.
Batting first, Australia score 346.
He has scored 114 of the 171 runs added while he is at the crease, and has made them in such an awe-inspiring manner that commentators are asking themselves when they last saw an innings as good.
Playing only for honour, India find themselves groveling before Donald, Pollock, McMillan and Klusener.
They add 222 for the sixth wicket in less than two sessions, and Tendulkar has 26 boundaries in his score of 169.
Even Donald says that he felt like clapping.
The duo has to contend with Shane Warne bowling from round the wicket and into the rough.
Single-handedly, Tendulkar takes India close to the cut-off when sandstorms disrupt the play.
It surely couldn't have got better.
By the time he is out in the 45th over, he has left India only 25 more to get.
Shane Warne is so devastated he confesses Tendulkar hits him for sixes in his nightmares.
And again, single-handedly, he puts Australia out of the game with his third century against them in three matches.
His 141 come in 128 balls, and India are 280 in the 46th over when he gets out.
Tendulkar is clearly dominating Australia like no other single player has ever done before.
Few Indian batting performances have been as heroic, or as tragic.
After helping add 136 for the sixth wicket, Mongia departs to an ungainly pull, and Tendulkar's back is also giving way.
But one error of judgment and it's all over.
First-innings lead is crucial in this contest, but Mumbai look down for the count at 127 for 4.
This is when old pal Vinod Kambli joins Tendulkar, and they see Mumbai out of trouble.
But they are not anywhere near home when Kambli falls with the score at 266.
This is just the kind of against-the-odds matchwinning knock that has eluded him at international level.
Perhaps that's why he later says, "This is one of my best innings.
This includes one-day internationals and Test cricket also."«
He takes 17 balls to score his first run, but 101 come off the next 97 deliveries.
It isn't the prettiest of Tendulkar's Test tons, but it is one of the most savage, characterised by pulls and vicious upper-cuts.
By the time Tendulkar's innings ends, India are reasonably well placed, though they go on to lose the Test.
He has not slept properly for 12 nights going into the match.
A target of 274 set for India, bat in hand, Tendulkar shows no anxiety whatsoever.
Or is it that nervous energy?
Every bowler is dealt with similar disdain.
He has not looked more pumped up before.
He dominates in the initial overs, shepherds the tentative middle order, and stays unbeaten to see the side home.
The pitch hasn't had much sun in the lead-up to the Test and Daljit feared that there might be moisture under the surface which could make it sluggish.
A spell of sunshine, however, should bring the bounce back.
Virender Sehwag, Gautam Gambhir, Rahul Dravid, Sourav Ganguly and Sachin Tendulkar also average above 50 at this venue.
The average is 35.98 and 41.50 for the first two innings and it dips to 33.27 in the fourth.
Since 2000 fast bowlers have averaged 41.72 for their 54 wickets while spinners have taken 52 at 36.28 apiece.
India have won two out of the last four Tests played here.
They beat England in 2001 and 2006 and drew with New Zealand in 2003 and Pakistan in 2005.
That's certainly something we will look to cash in on.
The record stood for nearly two years after Lara played his final Test and it was inevitable that Tendulkar would eventually break it.
As the day progressed Tendulkar scored his 50th half-century and became the first player to cross the 12,000-run mark.
Almost all the Australians, wherever placed in the field, came to congratulate him.
Ricky Ponting, the man most likely to challenge his status of being the top run-getter, was the first man to shake his hand.
Sourav Ganguly, Tendulkar's partner at the nonstriker's end, reminded him that he was there when he scored his record 35th Test century.
This also brought an end to the soap-opera-type frenzied anticipation for the record.
Even today the anxiety around was palpable.
During the time he got to 15, India lost two wickets in moving from 146 to 179 in 10.2 overs.
Coincidentally, Lara too achieved the world record against Australia, when he went past Allan Border's tally of 11,174 runs during the Adelaide Test in 2005.
They remain the only three players to cross the 11,000-run mark in Tests.
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The unsuccessful, wild approach by the Australian openers failed as both batsman fell in quick succession after smashing 49 in 7.2 overs Australia employed an unsuccessful, wild approach in their second innings because it was the only way the batsmen thought they could survive, said coach Tim Nielsen.
Hayden signalled the tourists' intent by charging the first ball of the innings, but the momentum swung quickly when offspinner Harbhajan Singh picked up both openers in the over before tea.
"Whatever India made," Nielsen said, "we thought that to be successful we had to have the mindset to chase it down.
"Trying to bat for nine or ten hours and just saving your wicket, or defending against the quality of the bowlers they have, makes it very difficult.
Our challenge was to put pressure down by scoring runs and knocking the bowlers off their length."The
Australia now has only five wickets remaining after finishing at 141 for 5.
We lost two wickets in an over and the wind certainly went out of our sails.
Clarke and Brad Haddin stabilised the previously frenetic situation in an 83-run stand, with Clarke unbeaten on 42 and Haddin on 37. Nielsen retained faith that the pair could negotiate the final day.

We're aware we've been behind the eight-ball for much of this game,
Brett Lee, who has failed to penetrate on the Indian pitches over the first two games.
" Nielsen said of delaying Lee's entry.
"He hasn't got the results he would like, but has had some decent spells at times.
We can't quite put the pressure we need for extended periods."Bowlers

New Zealand's attack looked toothless, the batsmen strokeless.
Step forward Daniel Vettori, the captain who saved the ship.
Four wickets off 42 overs in the second innings kept the target down to 317.
Although Australia went on to lose the Test match by an innings, Johnson was named man of the series, with 16 wickets and over 250 runs in 3 matches.
During the 2009 Ashes tour he was criticised for his poor bowling and his lack of control.
Johnson's position as spearhead of the Australian seam-attack was called into question, with match figures of 3/200 in the second Test at Lords and his demotion to first-change bowler in Australia's tour game against Northamptonshire .
In the match against Northamptonshire, he returned 7/67 from 18.1 overs as Australia won by 135 runs.
Johnson appeared to get back to his best towards the end of 2009, earning praise from captain Ricky Ponting during the summer series against both West Indies and Pakistan.
In the First Test at the Gabba he was hit for 3/130 in the match and was so out of form that he was dropped.
He did find himself, later that year, in the 3rd Test at Perth against South Africa.
He also played in the 3rd Test as an all-rounder due to Shane Watson's injury.
He did bowl well in the second innings, claiming the prized wicket of Dilshan and Thirimanne.
During the first innings of the 2015 Ashes series, he picked up the worst bowling figures of his career, 0-111, where he was torn apart by England's batsmen.
In December 2005, Johnson was selected for the Australian One Day International team, making his debut against New Zealand in Christchurch, with chairman of selectors Trevor Hohns justifying his selection on the grounds of grooming players for the future.
He finished as the top wicket-taker with 14 wickets, which showed his abilities, even on the slow pitches of the sub-continent.
Johnson is married to former model and karate black belt Jessica Bratich-Johnson since May 2011.
Warner playing for New South Wales in 2008.
His bowling style is unique in that he mixes off-spin bowling with his more usual leg-spin bowling.
At just 170cms Warner generates his power from strong forearms and uses his low centre of gravity to get underneath deliveries and hit them high in the air.
This introduction to the domestic scene led to Warner being included in Australia's Twenty20 squad in January 2009.
Warner on his T20 International debut Warner finally made his first-class debut playing for New South Wales against Western Australia in the final match of the 2008–09 Sheffield Shield competition at the Sydney Cricket Ground on 5–8 March 2009.
Batting only once and coming in at number six in the batting order, Warner scored 42 runs off 48 deliveries.
Both matches were in the Champions League .
Warner scored his first test hundred on 12 December 2011 in Australia's unsuccessful run chase against New Zealand in Hobart .
Warner made 123 not out in his side's second innings total of 233.
Warner playing for New South Wales in 2011.
He batted until the last ball of the innings.
He followed it up with 100 and 48 in the other two finals at the Adelaide Oval .
While playing for New South Wales, Warner broke the record for the highest Australian one-day domestic score.
His score of 197 came off just 141 balls and included 20 fours and 10 sixes, surpassing Jimmy Maher 's previous record of 187.
In the fourth season, Warner was contracted by Delhi Daredevils for US$750,000.
Warner ended the season as the tournament's leading run scorer, rewarding him with the orange cap, although the Sunrisers narrowly missed out on reaching the knock-out phase.
Warner has played for English County Champions Durham for the English cricket domestic season.
Warner in 2008This article is outdated.
Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information.
Warner attracted further controversy soon after.
Second over of the day, Siddle ran in with the new ball, pinged it in short and caught Gambhir flush on the side of the head as he tried too late to duck.
Before he finally got his India cap, Amit Mishra had toiled hard for eight years on India's domestic circuit, taking more than 300 wickets in that time.
He knew he would get only one match, unless Anil Kumble didn't recover in time for the Delhi Test, or Mishra did something extraordinary himself.
In the second innings, after the other bowlers had had their fill, he delivered the coup de grace, taking the last two wickets in successive overs.
He had just had the match of his life, in the first Test against New Zealand, but ended on the losing side by three wickets.
If India win this series they know when the momentum turned their way.
Out came Zaheer Khan to join Harbhajan Singh, and slowly but surely things went pear-shaped for Australia.
The good deliveries took edges and went through gaps, the average ones were thumped for boundaries, and the ones that kept  low were not on the line of the stumps.
Every run of the 80 the two added frustrated Australia and inched India back into the series.
This one had it all.
He put on 40 runs with Aaron Redmond, 82 with Daniel Flynn, and dragged his side over the threshold.
Bangladesh kept chipping away but in the end missed history by three wickets.
The stage was set.
Ricky Ponting walked out in Bangalore, in the first over of the series, his batting average in India 12.28.
India may have had the psychological upper hand, but Ponting was dogged: he took the attack to the bowlers, hardly looking the part of the man who had struggled so much in India till then.
It helped that he had come out to the middle early.
His major tormentor, Harbhajan Singh, was still some way away.
We've all heard of eye-popping catches, but spectacular drops?
Welcome to the Stanford 20/20 for 20, where the low floodlights  have been blamed for some dismally butterfingered fielding.
Some of their players had spoken, in the lead-up, of the millions they had foregone in favour of representing their nation.
The bowlers stifled the New Zealand batsmen, restricting them to 201.
It hardly seemed an upset, given how easy it was in the end.
Ponting lunged out to cover the stumps and leave, but the ball moved in with the shine.
Ponting saw it and looked to get the bat down, but the movement was sharp and took the stumps.
It would get me 95 times out of 100,
A very good, or very fortunate, batsman might just have got his pad in the way.
Dravid couldn't do anything about it in 1999, and Lee was luckless here.
The peach had come in the game before .
The final one of those boundaries finishes the chase, and also brings up that elusive century.
With Tendulkar, India smiles again.
Displays through the innings how he has mastered the art of scoring quick runs without taking any risks.
When he does take risk, it's worth preserving those shots in an album: the stepping out to spinners and lofts straight down the ground, and the unbelievably late flicks, even later late cuts.
It all ends in heartbreak, though: in Chennai in 1998-99, Tendulkar, having played an innings as incredible as this, left the last three wickets 17 to get; on this night he leaves them 19 off 17.
The rest choke like they did in Chennai.
His placement was impeccable and not once did he drop anchor.
Yusuf Pathan, MS Dhoni and Dinesh Karthik frolicked as well, but they were mere bystanders as Tendulkar continued with his act of savagery.
He fetched 100 runs off fours alone and also ran swiftly between the wickets.
A squirt to backward point got him to 200, and he ended up scoring almost exactly half of India's total.
With the semi-old ball, though, Steyn produces two spells of near-unplayable swing bowling either side of lunch on day three.
The cricket's been prosaic rather than nail-biting, and some of the leading actors appear to have forgotten where the stage is.
Perhaps both teams have focused so much attention and energy on the marquee names that the guard has slipped when faced with the allegedly lesser lights.
Australia have tried restrictive fields for Virender Sehwag, and then been surprised by the fact that Gautam Gambhir has picked off runs with almost as much fluency.
India's bowlers have kept Hayden and Clarke quiet, but met stiffer-than-expected resistance from the likes of Lee.
Used to the Kookaburra ball in Australia, the Australian quicks, Johnson apart, have been comprehensively outbowled with the SG by India's duo.
Being vertically challenged, he has little option but to flight the ball, and he showed real character to stick to his strengths despite the odd loose delivery disappearing to the boundary.
This was his first five-wicket haul in his first-class career in only his second match.
He was part of India's 15-man squad for the 2015 Cricket World Cup .
He has an elder brother named Sanship Patel.
In the 7th season of the Indian Premier League he continued playing for the Mumbai Indians.
In the game against royal challengers Banglore he was in the side in place of Zaheer Khan.
Although some early Sanskrit literature mentions the name, the region's early history is obscure.
The east came to be known as East Bengal and the west came to known as West Bengal which remained as an Indian state .
Main articles: History of Bengal and History of West Bengal Stone Age tools dating back 20,000 years have been excavated in the state.
From the 3rd to the 6th centuries CE, the kingdom of Magadha served as the seat of the Gupta Empire .
Ram Mohan Roy is regarded as the "Father of the Bengali renaissance .
".Subsequent Muslim conquests helped spread Islam throughout the region.
Consequently, the region was ruled by dynasties of Bengal Sultanate and feudal lords under the Delhi Sultanate for the next few hundred years.
Smaller Hindu states, landlords and Baro-Bhuyans also ruled in parts of Bengal.
The Bengal Sultanate was interrupted for 20 years by an uprising by the Hindus under Raja Ganesha .
In the sixteenth century, Mughal general Islam Khan conquered Bengal.
There were several independent Hindu states established in Bengal during the Mughal period like those of Pratapaditya of Jessore District and Raja Sitaram Ray of Bardhaman .
The Koch dynasty in northern Bengal flourished during the period of 16th and the 17th centuries as well as weathered the Mughals and survived till the advent of the British.
Several European traders arrived late in the fifteenth century.
The Bengal famine of 1770 claimed millions of lives.
Calcutta was named the capital of British India in 1772.
The Bengal Renaissance and Brahmo Samaj socio-cultural reform movements had great impact on the cultural and economic life of Bengal.
When India gained independence in 1947, Bengal was partitioned along religious lines.
The western part went to India .
The Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971 resulted in the influx of millions of refugees to West Bengal, causing significant strains on its infrastructure.
West Bengal is on the eastern bottleneck of India, stretching from the Himalayas in the north, to the Bay of Bengal in the south.
The Ganges is the main river, which divides in West Bengal.
One branch enters Bangladesh as the Padma or Pôdda, while the other flows through West Bengal as the Bhagirathi River and Hooghly River .
It never was going to get out of hand "Shane Watson, the Australian allrounder, has said his team has not given up hope despite being 301 runs behind India after the third day.
Watson top scored with 78 in Australia's first innings of 269, but the visitors were further away by stumps when India sped to 100 without loss.
" he said.
"If we're set 430 or something in four or five sessions, I've got no doubt, if we bat well, we can chase down anything.
The wicket is still playing well.
We know we're still in it, but we'll have to play two really good days of cricket,
We're never down and out until the game is over.
During Watson's 73-run eighth-wicket partnership with Brett Lee, the batsmen were warned by the umpires about their verbal exchanges with the India bowlers.
They  were hoping it wouldn't get out of control,
Mishra double gives India the upper hand Sourav Ganguly and Mahendra Singh Dhoni added 109 for the seventh wicket India took the honours on day two in Mohali, amassing 469 and then putting Australia under extreme pressure by claiming four wickets before stumps.
Sourav Ganguly, who scored his 16th Test century, and Mahendra Singh Dhoni batted in contrasting fashion to force Australia on the defensive, and debutant Amit Mishra struck twice to maintain the intensity created by India's new-ball pair.
Ganguly, who had struggled in the series against Sri Lanka, put on 109 for the seventh wicket with Dhoni to maintain the advantage built on the first day.
Ganguly fell for 102 but Dhoni continued to attack, forcing Ricky Ponting to spread his field far and wide.
Australia's bowlers struggled to make breakthroughs and most of their wickets came when India tried to up the momentum.
Not long after lunch, he tucked Cameron White off his pads towards deep midwicket boundary and indulged himself.
His hundred-watt smile and fist-pumping celebration was far from smug; and it seemed it was meant more for himself than anyone else.
Ganguly batted with restraint in the morning, watching the ball carefully, playing late, and letting several deliveries pass outside off.
He batted 122 deliveries yesterday, and wasn't about to throw it away.
He didn't thrust the bat much, took the short-pitched deliveries on merit, and nudged the singles around.
He began by pulling Brett Lee for four but was also made to look ungainly by other bouncers.
His concentration never wavered.
Out of the 61 Dhoni scored in the partnership, 36  came in boundaries, while Ganguly's share of 42 included three fours, and 23 singles.
This was Ganguly's first century in 23 innings since his double-century against Pakistan in Bangalore.
Dhoni's 92 was his highest score in Tests in India, where he's played 19 innings.
Zaheer Khan dismissed Matthew Hayden for the third time in the series and for the seventh time in 11 matches, the most times he's dismissed any batsman.
Left-handers account for 77  of dismissals Zaheer's 185 wickets.
They are also more likely to be bowled or lbw against him than right-hand batsmen: 32  compared to 33 out of 108.
Ganguly's stodgy approach, however, was complemented by Dhoni's aggression.
He also waited for the ball, steering backward of point and driving in the V. His running was, as always, excellent and he urged Ganguly to be alert as well.
The wicket was against the run of play, but Dhoni didn't let it hinder him.
He was the last wicket, lbw for 92, and gave the persevering Siddle his third wicket.
The Australians had spent nearly five sessions in the field and, when it was their turn to bat, Zaheer Khan ensured that Matthew Hayden did stay very long under the hot Mohali sun.
A few balls later another sharp inswinger hit Ponting on the pad, and this time he was on the back foot, leaving Australia 17 for 2. Zaheer and Ishant attacked through their opening spell and the change to spin didn't release the pressure.
Katich, who had gone to 33 with some soft-handed strokes, played on.
The spinners turned the ball sharply; Michael Hussey had one thick edge bypass slip and was reprieved by Dhoni on 25 off Harbhajan Singh.
India were without Anil Kumble in this game but Mishra has filled the gap impressively so far.
This was Ganguly and Dhoni's day.
This was deemed serious enough for the umpires to step in twice, however no formal complaints were made and Warner tweeted later in the day describing it as "friendly banter".
Despite this, writers called into question his return to the Australia squad for the third Ashes test against England, which seemed likely after scoring 193 in the first innings of this match.
He was eventually forgiven and was recalled but caused huge hilarity when he 'hooked another one to Root' as he put it himself, as he was caught on the boundary by Root .
Warner married Australian ironwoman Candice Falzon in April 2015.
He was known to wicketkeeper and bowl in the same innings during his time with the club.
Starc debuted for his home state New South Wales in 2009, at the age of 19.
His performances for Western Suburbs and the state 2nd XI earned him the elevation and he replaced the suspended Aaron Bird for the final match of the season.
Starc was named as Player of the Tournament.
He did not bat and was wicketless.
Starc was selected to play for the third test of South Africa's tour of Australia in 2012.
Despite his recent form, he was rested in favour of Jackson Bird to make his debut for the Boxing Day Test against Sri Lanka.
He also became Australia's leading wicket-taker across all forms of first-class and international cricket for the 2014–15 season with 60 wickets, including the leading wicket taker for 2015 Cricket World Cup, having played one fewer game than New Zealander Trent Boult .
He also is the leading wicket taker in the world in all forms of international cricket for the 2015 calendar year with 88 as of December 2, 2015, after his ankle injury in the inaugural day-night test at Adelaide Oval.
After missing the beginning of the tournament with injury, he came back and continued on with his good form from the World Cup.
Starc was the joint highest wicket taker in the 2015 Cricket World Cup along with Trent Boult with 22 wickets at an economy rate of 3.58, but he was judged to be no.1 having played one less game than Boult.
Starc was adjudged Man of the Tournament in the 2015 Cricket World Cup .
This happened in his 89th over.
After bowling at this rapid pace, he soon started bowling 150 kph plus.
One of which, at 154.8 kph, smashed the corner of Brendon McCullum's bat.
He might not quite have the skills of Wasim Akram, who he has often been compared to, but mentally Zaheer has become as good as Akram.
Unlike the Pakistan fast bowlers of the 2000s, though, he stays away from controversy and is pretty low-key off the field.
Zaheer's career can be easily divided into three distinct sections, neatly segregated by injuries.
Kohli, at gully, threw himself full length to his right and took the ball one-handed.
India chose not to enforce it, however, and their openers rattled off 100 in 23 overs, extending the lead to 301.
If India go on to win this Test their think-tank should pat itself on the back because the decision to play Mishra, plucked out of relative obscurity, paid off spectacularly.
India bowled with determination and resolve through the day but Mishra was the pick of the lot.
Short and stocky with an easy action, he bowled the ball slow and that earned him the massive wickets of Simon Katich and Michael Clarke yesterday.
India gained the early advantage by removing Michael Hussey in the first session, but Watson and Brad Haddin looked to be settling in when the persevering Harbhajan Singh struck.
Amit Mishra became the sixth Indian bowler to take five wickets in his debut Test, the first since Narendra Hirwani.
India didn't enforce the follow in Sydney in 2004; the Test was drawn.
The highest fourth-innings target successfully chased in India is 276, by West Indies in Delhi in 1987 .
They have four century partnerships in all.
India were made to toil for over two hours during the one period Australia can claim to have dominated.
He leant into his drives and caressed the ball- six of his fours came on the off side.
Watson batted with composure despite the ball turning enough to beat the bat or strike the pad.
He walked in after lunch on 39 with the responsibility of lifting Australia from 174 for 7, and was fortunate to be given not out by Rudi Koerzten, when the first ball of Ishant's post-lunch spell swung in and struck him plumb in front.
Watson and Lee batted out the first hour after lunch, scoring 47 runs, and were nine minutes away from tea when Harbhajan was rewarded for tight bowling when Lee pushed hard and edged low to Rahul Dravid at slip.
Plenty had been written about India's persistence with two spinners, and Mishra stepped up commendably.
Expectedly, Mahendra Singh Dhoni did not enforce the follow-on.
Australia needed wickets but Ricky Ponting spread the field and started with one slip.
India's 50 was up in 12 overs and, soon after, Siddle pitched the ball up and Sehwag slammed him over extra-cover.
Sehwag's fifty took 68 balls and he promised much more on day four.
It enabled him to shrug off years of carping that he was technically too limited for Test cricket because of the way he played around his front pad, and it enabled him to touch rarefied heights of batsmanship.
Before his maiden first-class innings, he asked if anyone had made 200 on debut, then went out and hit 149.
The runs rarely abated over the next 17 years.
Belatedly he came good in the one-day arena too, and by the time the 2003 World Cup rolled around he was ranked among the top three batsmen in both forms of the game.
Later that year he hammered 380 against Zimbabwe at Perth, briefly borrowing the Test record from Brian Lara, and in mid-2004 he was at it again, battering Sri Lanka for twin centuries that took his tally to 20 in only 55 Tests.
His lack of form and footwork continued against England and his disastrous series only improved at The Oval with 138.
With three hundreds in consecutive games against India in 2007-08, he quickly leapfrogged Bradman's 29, and had 30 when he waved goodbye.
Regaining the Ashes in 2006-07 brought tears to Hayden's eyes and he was also saddened when Langer retired at the end of the series, although his mood lifted when he won back his one-day place.
In the final match of the 2006-07 Chappell-Hadlee series he thumped an Australian-record 181 off 166 balls, which included ten sixes, and showed his impressive power.
He had been keen to push on until the 2009 Ashes, but disappointing displays in the lost series against India and South Africa in 2008-09 prompted him to announce his retirement after the Sydney Test.
And with that, he was gone.
Why India should seriously consider retaining Dhoni as captain for the rest of the series, whether Kumble plays or not Kumble or Dhoni?
Anybody who watched the Mohali Test and still thinks Dhoni needs more grooming has attended too many dog shows.
Most importantly he created an atmosphere where the players enjoyed the contest.
Dhoni is wise to involve his team in an exciting contest where victory is sought from the first ball, because it galvanises the better players in his team.
After the match Ricky Ponting said that India had outplayed his side from start to finish in all aspects, even fielding.
His detractors call it luck, but whatever it is, it has worked.
His 100% win record is safe but Dhoni isn't shouting triumphantly from the rooftops just yet.
Midas touch and it was summed up best when he asked the debutant Amit Mishra to go round the stumps in the last over of the second day.
Mishra bowled an accurate wrong'un to trap Michael Clarke in front and one was reminded of the ploy to give Joginder Sharma the final over of the World Twenty20 final.
But Dhoni, to the amusement of all present, only said, "Fluke tha yaar ."What
He infused urgency into India's mindset with his aggressive approach and timely changes to the batting order.
The new, lethal Zaheer was not only the leader of the Indian attack, he was one of the best in the world.
Already the second-most successful Indian pace bowler, if Zaheer keeps injuries at bay, he could end up as India's most complete fast bowler of all time.
It takes another 11 years of consistent output before he convinces the national selectors of his worth.
Becomes only the third man after Wally Hammond and Graeme Hick to amass three County Championship triple-hundreds.
His 331 for Northamptonshire against Somerset in 2003 follows the 310 and 329 in his previous two seasons with the side.
In England he is incredible in the Championship, averaging 79 in 2001, 72 in 2002, 89 in 2003, 36 in 2004 and 76 in 2005.
Picked for the limited-overs tour of New Zealand, he scores 31 off 15 balls in his opening Twenty20.
Despite his initial success with the team and his outstanding form in England, he is not selected for the Ashes Test squad.
England supporters couldn't understand why it took Australia took so long to spot Hussey's Test claims following his time in the counties.
It reached 86.18 after back-to-back centuries against Sri Lanka and then begins to drop towards the marks of the other mortals.
The first glitch comes in the one-day format leading up to the 2007 World Cup.
At the World Cup his first four entries are single figures and he finishes with 87 runs for the tournament.
Breaks the drought at The Oval and while his 121 extends his career, it can't stop an Australian loss as England regain the Ashes.
Have shots, will play First Test century.
His captaincy comes in for plenty of praise.
Is vindicated as India go on to win the Australian triangular event for the first time, beating Australia 2-0 in the final series.
On top of the Test world India beat Sri Lanka in Mumbai to win the series 2-0 and take over as the No.1 Test team for the first time.
Dhoni the captain also enjoys his time as batsman, scoring two centuries in three innings in the series.
But Dhoni, promoted to No. 3, plunders 183 off 145 balls, and takes India to victory with 23 balls to spare.
Matthew Hayden, who had begun in one-day mode, tried to sweep and was lbw for 29.
The wickets had come in Harbhajan's first over, an inspired bowling change by Dhoni after the new-ball bowlers had been expensive.
The length was short and the ball skidded through to Michael Hussey who suffered from poor shot selection: he tried to pull but was hit plumb in front.
The wicket sparked manic celebrations in Mohali for it was Harbhajan's 299th.
The decisive blow came in the next over.
It was the third time that Sharma had dismissed Ponting in the series, and the fifth overall.
Shane Watson was the next to go, hit in front by one that nipped into him from Ishant, and was the fifth wicket to fall in the space of nine runs.
Their heaviest defeat came against England in 1928, when they lost by 675 runs.
Gambhir got starts in his previous nine innings, which included four fifties, and averaged 47.45, but failed to convert them into hundreds.
Ishant Sharma dismissed Ricky Ponting for the fifth time in as many Tests.
Ponting averages 18.80 against Ishant in eight innings.
Harbhajan Singh dismissed Matthew Hayden for the eighth time in as many Tests, more than any other bowler.
It was the first time he trapped Hayden lbw.
A dogged 83-run partnership in 29.3 overs between Michael Clarke and Brad Haddin denied India any more success, but there was no denying who's day it was.
Unlike the Indians, Australia's bowlers could find no assistance in the pitch and struggled to contain the batsmen as they pursued quick runs.
When play began, Gambhir and Sehwag made sure the platform built over three days was not wasted.
Both openers found the gaps in the field with ease because Ponting had several men on the boundary.
The ball didn't always come onto Sehwag's bat but he repeatedly tried to whip it between midwicket and mid-on.
Apart from the powerful shots, Sehwag and Gambhir also dropped the ball with soft hands and ran swiftly between the wickets.
He ran hard and hit the ball even harder.
His unbeaten 68 was his second half-century of the match.
However, he chipped White to mid-off soon after reaching his hundred but had ensured India's advantage.
Dhoni added 66 with Sourav Ganguly, who was last out for 27, after the lead passed 500.
His occasional gracelessness was the flip-side of his impressive determination, and in 1983 he left his home-town club Gloucestershire for Nottinghamshire, whingeing that their unambitiousness had held him back.
England rewarded this theoretically  frowned-on move by picking him at once.
This paid off spectacularly  against the weak Australian team of 1986-87 when Broad equalled Jack  Hobbs and Wally Hammond by scoring centuries in three successive  Tests of an Ashes series.
His commentary was as well-honed as his batting, though his flair for it was less obvious.
To conquer international cricket, Shane Watson first had to beat his fragile body.
Despite boasting an athletic figure made for photo shoots, Watson's frame was so brittle it threatened to break him.
He refused to give up.
He changed his training, preferring pilates to weights, gave up alcohol, but not his dream.
Many batsmen would have been uncomfortable with the promotion from the middle order, especially after failing when given the job with Queensland, but Watson had become used to re-inventing himself.
He had earned some luck.
He gave up the vice-captaincy after that tour and played for another two years before being dropped during the 2015 Ashes, after which he announced his retirement from Tests.
The Australian template has always been to play attacking cricket, score quickly, and then strangle the opponents with accurate bowling and tight fielding.
Before the series started, Ricky Ponting talked up Australia's new-age cricket, and said India played the old-fashioned way.
In this Test, though, the role reversal was complete.
The only occasion the margin was greater was more than ten years back, also against India, in Kolkata, when Australia lost by an innings and 219 runs.
Biggest difference between Australian and opposition run-rates since 1990A batsman of great talent and enormous ambition, Michael Clarke emerged in Australia's golden years, was with them through the troughs that followed, and eventually led them back to the No.1 Test ranking.
In the field his throw was as fast and accurate as anything in the game, and he could winkle out batsmen with his disarming left-arm spin.
Mostly he became known for his immaculate driving and slicing of the ball through impossible angles.
His peak year was 2012, which brought 1595 runs at 106.33 and stamped him as the most in-form batsman in the world.
Later in the year came back-to-back double-centuries against South Africa in Brisbane and Adelaide.
There seemed little he could not do.
But the team harmony disintegrated on the tour of India that followed in 2013, when Clarke and coach Mickey Arthur suspended four players in what became known as the homework saga.
Although Clarke's ability and dedication could never be questioned, he nevertheless struggled at times to win over sections of the public, due in part to his A-list celebrity status, large endorsements and high-profile private life.
There were occasions when he was booed in his own country, and at times he was accused of being too aloof around the team environment.
In such circumstances, however, you may not be able to access your account or settings.
We reserve the right to suspend or end the services at any time, with or without cause, and with or without notice.
We make no warranty that our services will meet your requirements, be safe, secure, uninterrupted, timely, accurate, or error-free, or that your information will be secure.
We are not responsible for the content, data, or actions of third parties, and you release us, our directors, officers, employees, and agents from any claims and damages, known and unknown, arising out of or in any way connected with any claim you have against any such third parties.
Any material downloaded or otherwise obtained through your use of our services is done at your own discretion and risk, and you will be solely responsible for any damage to your computer system or loss of data that results from the download of any such material.
You agree that we have no responsibility or liability for the deletion of, or the failure to store or to transmit, any content or communication maintained by the service.
We retain the right to create limits on use and storage at our sole discretion at any time with or without notice.
Some states or jurisdictions do not allow the types of disclaimers in this section, so they may not apply to you either in part or in full depending on the law.
In no event shall our liability exceed one thousand U.S. dollars  in aggregate.
In the case that applicable law may not allow the limitation or exclusion of liability or incidental or consequential damages, the above limitation or exclusion may not apply to you, although our liability will be limited to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
You understand that, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by us, you have no expectation of compensation for any activity, contribution, or idea that you provide to us, the community, or the Wikimedia Projects or Project editions.
The people of Delhi are referred to as Delhiites or Dilliwalas.
The city is referenced in various idioms of the Northern Indo-Aryan languages .
Dilli dilwalon ka shehr or Dilli Dilwalon ki meaning Delhi belongs to the large-hearted/daring. Aas-paas barse, Dilli pani tarse, literally meaning it pours all around, while Delhi lies parched.
An allusion to the sometimes semi-arid climate of Delhi, it idiomatically refers to situations of deprivation when one is surrounded by plenty.
The area around Delhi was probably inhabited before the second millennium BC, and there is evidence of continuous inhabitation since at least the 6th century BC.
The earliest architectural relics date back to the Maurya period  was discovered near Srinivaspuri.
Remains of eight major cities have been discovered in Delhi.
The first five cities were in the southern part of present-day Delhi.
Gurjara-pratihara King Anang Pal of the Tomara dynasty founded the city of Lal Kot in AD 736.
The Chauhans conquered Lal Kot in 1180 and renamed it Qila Rai Pithora .
In 1737, Maratha forces sacked Delhi following their victory against the Mughals in the First Battle of Delhi .
He hits four sixes and 19 fours in his innings for 148, which take him only 153 balls.
By the time he is out, India trail by only 97 runs.
Dhoni rides his luck, survives several edges and bats for 159 balls for his 76.
He keeps losing partners, but manages to hang on with Sreesanth, the No 11, until the rain, which has threatened to arrive all day, finally does and ends the Test.
Sourav Ganguly's announcement that this series would be his last took most of the adverse attention off his middle-order friends and concentrated it upon him.
He revealed it was the Irani Cup axe that prompted his decision to quit and then drew flak for uncharitable comments, which were attributed to him, about selectors and team-mates.
Suddenly, barely days after his decision to "gracefully retire" was celebrated, he once again became the villain.
How we love to do that to Ganguly.
The pressure facing Ganguly this time, however, was new.
He has battled for his place in side on several occasions but this time his selection was beyond doubt.
And that created pressure in itself because he wouldn't want to be picked only because he had announced his retirement.
Boy with the Midas touch Australian audiences are treated to another stunning century by their boy wonder in his first home Test.
Along the way, he collects the 2005 Allan Border medal.
End of the joyride for the golden boy Just ten months after everything seemed to be going his way, he is axed from the squad for the third Test against West Indies.
A glimpse of the future Clarke captains Australia for the first time, promoted ahead of Adam Gilchrist and Michael Hussey after Rick Ponting opts out of the Twenty20 against New Zealand in Perth .
A test for Captain Clarke Clarke had already led Australia in the odd Twenty20 and one-dayer, but the short visit by the Bangladeshis is his first full series at the helm.
Test captaincy, at last After Australia's horrendous Ashes campaign at home in 2010-11, Clarke takes over as Test captain for the tour of Sri Lanka.
His unbeaten 329 is also the highest Test score in Sydney, and it helps Australia thrash India by an innings and 68 runs.
Koerzten is not immune to the pressures of the job, and in 2000-01 his errors contributed to one of the most fractious matches of modern times, the second Test between Sri Lanka and England at Kandy.
Nevertheless, he retains the respect of the players, and an enthusiasm that enables him to spend more than 240 days of the year away from his wife and four children.
Through most of his career, Tendulkar has been the mainstay of the Indian batting, which is reflected in the percentage of team runs that he has scored.
The three Australians are at the bottom of the list, which clearly indicates the quality of the other batsmen they played with.
Out of the 201 times he has batted at No. 4, 78 times he has come out with the score less than 50, of which on 34 occasions the score was less than 20.
The table below lists his performances according to the team situation at his entry.
He was far more successful when he came in with the score between 21 and 50, averaging 54.56.
Forty-one of those innings have been at home, where he averages almost 70.
In similar situations overseas, his average is an incredible 87.39, with five unbeaten hundreds.
Tendulkar's stats at No.4 by when he has come in to bat Team score at entry Zaheer fined 80% of match fee for send-off Zaheer Khan "circled Matthew Hayden and shouted at him in an aggressive manner "The India fast bowler Zaheer Khan was fined 80% of his match fee on Tuesday for unsporting conduct during India's dominant victory.
He was fielding when Hayden was dismissed lbw to Harbhajan Singh and "circled the batsman and shouted at him in an aggressive manner.
Zaheer's good disciplinary record in delivering the fine.
He also pleaded guilty at the first opportunity and was very apologetic while also promising not to repeat the offence,
Hayden complained to umpire Rudi Koertzen, who was standing at square leg, when he left the ground in the over before tea on the fourth day.
" Dhoni said.
The guys are not really crossing the boundary, so it is okay."Ponting said he did not mind "chitchat" on the field, but "if players do overstep the line then the umpires get involved".
"They did get est squad were present.
The retirement and its aftermath ensured that Ganguly would still be fighting personal battles during the series.
Not to worry, though, for the dramatic build-up only took the game to Ganguly's home turf.
It's hard to explain why, but as Ian Botham said of his own technique, it sort of clicks.
Ganguly's game sort of clicks when he has been written off, it sort of clicks when people want him to be seen as the enemy.
His game has sort of clicked so far in this series, for one last time.
Some have even called it his "paternal avatar.
".So when Ganguly flicked Cameron White towards the midwicket boundary in the third over after lunch, and realised the ball wouldn't be cut off by the fielders, he ran towards the end opposite the pavilion, pumped his fists and raised both his arms, while smiling to himself.
The helmet stayed where it was, and he didn't point at anybody.
He said later that the Australians had blocked the boundaries by employing defensive fields almost throughout.
This innings required more patience than usual and Ganguly had it in abundance.
Yesterday he took 18 balls to get off the mark but raced away while everybody was focused on Sachin Tendulkar's record.
By the time Tendulkar took charge, Ganguly had reached his thirties and took the back seat again.
He had the perfect partner in Dhoni, who took the attack to Australia, and the spotlight away from Ganguly.
Quietly he moved towards his second hundred against Australia and his first at home.
On October 18, he said that one last thing.
Or maybe not for there are five possible innings to go.
We are still listening, Dadi.
"You don't see Hussey bowl too often.
We changed things around because things weren't working for us.
Australian papers, was blown out of proportion and Ponting and Nielsen said there was no lingering resentment between the players.
Sourav Ganguly before India's declaration.
Siddle bowled admirably in his first Test, collecting four wickets, but Lee almost has 300 victims.
" Nielsen said.
We were searching for results quickly because we felt like we were under pressure,
"These conditions are unrelenting, if you're not quite right with your skills you get shown out.""He's
They were behind when England used it spectacularly in 2005 and are desperate to catch up following the highly effective tricks of Zaheer Khan and Ishant Sharma over the past two weeks.
We're working on getting one side rougher, and doing it legally, which is the challenge.
Troy Cooley, the bowling coach in charge of England three years ago, should be able to help and has told the bowlers to hold the ball across the seam, like the Indians do.
" Nielsen said.
"Sharma and Khan build up big pressure and it's difficult to score.
Clark's fitness will be tested early next week after he missed the second Test with an elbow injury.
If he can, he will get his spot back.
" Nielsen said.
Given his elbow comes right, you'd expect him to come back into the team.
The Marathas again occupied Delhi in 1758, and were in control until their defeat in 1761 at the third battle of Panipat when the city was captured again by Ahmad Shah.
The Constitution  Act, 1991 declared the Union Territory of Delhi to be formally known as the National Capital Territory of Delhi.
See also: Climate of Delhi Delhi features an atypical version of the humid subtropical climate .
Government House and the Wellington College boys' school are to the south of the Basin, across the street.
The New Zealand Cricket Museum is located in the Old Grandstand.
MS  lead from the front and it was fantastic to watch the way the team approached the game and the intensity we kept up throughout," Kumble wrote in his syndicated newspaper column.
He reacted strongly to media criticism about his captaincy, form, and fitness, and insisted he would return once fully fit.
One of the reasons he probably didn't play this  match was so that he gets proper rest for the next two Tests.
Amit Mishra, who took seven wickets on debut.
Kumble was very impressed with Mishra's use of flight and variations.
India that we've found someone like Amit," Kumble wrote.
Confidence is critical.
As Amit's five-for has come in his first game itself against Australia, it's even better for him."He said Mishra was finally being rewarded after going through the grind in eight domestic seasons.
"He bowled beautifully and not just by the debutant yardstick.
One thing we just have to be so certain about is that we don't panic,
We have to understand what the right way to go about playing over here is, and keep ourselves controlled and calm enough that we can deliver under the pressure we find ourselves.
We all know the referee is involved in the Zaheer Khan incident from yesterday .
Australia is to play good, consistent cricket," he said.
"If it  was by using verbals we would have hired some guys who are good at that stuff.
Ultimately you've got to play good cricket.
A bit of verbal chitchat going around is fine, it gives some excitement to the game, but it's got to be between the boundaries."Tendulkar
A brief passage of play, during which India lost three wickets for 17 runs, threatened to undo the 104-run platform built in the morning but Sachin Tendulkar, who became Test cricket's highest run-scorer, and Sourav Ganguly ensured that the initiative wasn't lost by batting the majority of the final session.
Unlike the pitch in Bangalore, which had variable bounce from the start, the surface at the Punjab Cricket Association Stadium was true.
There was hardly any swing or movement off the pitch; the ball came on to the bat, and sped off it, allowing the batsmen to drive on the up or hit through the line.
At tea, given the outstanding batting conditions, Australia held the edge having reduced India to 174 for 4. Another wicket would have made it their day but they were blunted by Tendulkar and Ganguly, who scored at nearly four an over without any risks.
It was Ganguly, however, who set the pace initially.
He had taken 17 balls to get off the mark before tea but after the interval he hit the ball through gaps in the offside with precision, driving Shane Watson and Peter Siddle for three boundaries between point and cover.
He tried to repeat the shot the next ball but inside edged the ball past his stumps.
His third attempt to push the new ball through the offside 15 minutes before stumps landed in Matthew Hayden's hands at first slip and gave Siddle his maiden Test wicket.
Before that error in judgement, however, Tendulkar had scored runs all round the ground and wasn't tied down by any bowler.
He was severe on Siddle, against whom he scored 29 off 20 balls, driving him twice past mid-on for four and steering him to the third-man boundary.
When Ponting brought on Cameron White, Tendulkar attempted to unsettle the legspinner by charging down the pitch and lofting down the ground.
The 15th run of his 88 helped Sachin Tendulkar break Brian Lara's record for most Test runs .
Tendulkar also became the first to reach 12,000 Test runs during his innings.
Tendulkar scored his 50th Test fifty.
He is the fourth batsman to achieve the feat, and the second Indian; Rahul Dravid was the first.
Ganguly became the 33rd player and the fourth Indian to score 7000 runs in Tests.
During their 142-run stand, Ganguly and Tendulkar became the sixth pair to score more than 4000 runs when batting together in Tests.
Rahul Dravid and Tendulkar have combined for over 5000 runs.
India scored 49% of their runs in boundaries; 58% of their runs came in fours until the end of the second session.
Eighteen bowlers, including Cameron White and Peter Siddle in this series, have claimed Tendulkar's wicket in their first Test.
Johnson was largely responsible for the fightback.
In between those wickets he contained Dravid by bowling full and wide with seven fielders on the off side, and induced an edge from Gambhir as he tried to drive another full delivery through cover.
Sehwag ensured the run-rate stayed around six an over by piercing the infield frequently.
He punished Siddle when the line was too straight, nudging him down to fine leg, and flicking to the square-leg boundary twice in succession.
The batsmen hit 10 boundaries in the first hour and raced to 63 in 13 overs.
Having tried all his fast bowlers, Ricky Ponting gave the final over of the session to the left-arm spinner Michael Clarke.
The Australians came out after the break with different lines of attack.
Watson and Siddle restricted Gambhir's scoring by aiming short balls at his ribs.
Johnson slanted deliveries full and wide outside off stump and asked the batsmen to drive with seven fielders on the off side.
Dravid chased one and was beaten, after which he let several go.
He eventually played on while trying to force Lee through the off side.
Tendulkar and Ganguly protected the innings from further damage.
In March 2001, it proved too much for the all-conquering Australians, as Harbhajan collected 32 wickets in three Tests, including the first Test hat-trick by an Indian, while none of his team-mates managed more than three.
His personal rivalry against the Australians has provided him both the highest and the lowest points of his career.
Invariably, he has managed to raise his game against them, and been singularly responsiwater containing arsenic above the World Health Organisation recommended limit of 10  µg /L.
West Bengal's climate varies from tropical savanna in the southern portions to humid subtropical in the north.
A cold and dry northern wind blows in the winter, substantially lowering the humidity level.
As of 2013, recorded forest area in the state is 16,805 km2  which is 18.93% of the state's geographical area, compared to the national average of 21.23%.
The team which finished last in each Elite sub-group was relegated, and both Plate Group finalists were promoted for the following season.
In the 2008–09 season, this format was adjusted to give both Super League and Plate League teams an opportunity to contest the Ranji Trophy.
The top two from each Plate sub-group contested semi-finals; the winners of these two matches then joined the top three from each Super League sub-group in an eight-team knock-out tournament.
The winner of this knock-out tournament then won the Ranji Trophy.
Promotion and relegation between Super League and Plate League continued as before.
In the 2010–11 season, Rajasthan won the Ranji Trophy after beginning the season in the Plate League.
From the 2012–13 season, this format was adjusted slightly.
The Super League and Plate League names were abandoned, but the two-tier system remained.
The top tier expanded from fifteen teams to eighteen teams, in two sub-groups of nine .
Round-robin matches are four days in length; knockout matches are played for five days.
Kaul was named in the squad for the India U-19s team for the 2008 Under-19 World Cup in Malaysia .
He played in all of India's matches as they proceeded to the final, where they defeated the South African U-19 cricket team by 12 runs .
Wellington) hampered construction on the Basin Reserve as workers were pulled to other areas.
No cattle or horses were allowed in the ground and only small hedges and shrubs were allowed to be planted so as not to hamper cricket games.
Soon after, on 11 January 1868, the first game of cricket was played, although the ground had numerous stones and thistles on it, which the umpire later apologised for as some players got injured from them.
Although it was the opening day, no ceremony or music was played, nor was the opening advertised with banners.
Soon after that first event, the Highland Games began being held at the Basin Reserve.
The games were organised by the Wellingtonian Caledonian Society, of which their headquarters, The Caledonian Hotel, still stands towards the south of the Basin Reserve.
The society offered up prize money which brought many competitors to the region.
Due to their success, the society petitioned to have new grandstands built at the western end of the Basin Reserve.
They would measure 44 ft by 20 ft and would cost approximately £250–£300.
The stands would also hold food stalls and ground keepers.
However, for the following years, even up until reportedly 1872, the Basin Reserve grounds were still extremely swampy, with small pools of swamp water and various weeds and shrubs sprouting over the fields.
In late 1872, horses were used to level the playing field and this greatly improved the conditions.
Spectators and the William Wakefield Memorial In 1882, the William Wakefield Memorial was erected at the Basin Reserve.
However, the game was hampered with injuries from numerous stones and thistles in the grass, which led to the injury of some players.
The umpire apologised after the game to the players for the poor conditions of play.
After that first event, local societies began organising athletic and sport meetings at the Basin Reserve.
These meetings were eventually called the Highland Games and it was their success which led to the construction of the ground's grand stand.
The events included athletics, racing, dancing and later wood-chopping and cycling.
However, the ground was still swampy in some areas, but was remedied in late 1872.
Another first at the Basin Reserve is reputedly what was the first game of rugby in the North Island.
The first Test match played at the ground was between New Zealand and England, beginning on 24 January 1930.
One-day international cricket was played at the Basin Reserve until 1999, after which it moved to the larger crowd capacity Westpac Stadium on the other side of Wellington.
The game was played in front of more than 10,000 people with people sitting between the boundary rope and the fence.
This is the biggest crowd at the Basin Reserve in the modern era.
Ishant's career has never quite turned out like that, but one could imagine that the intervening years had not existed aen.
" Nielsen said.
"We were under immense pressure and in no way able to get back in the game.
If we do the same in Delhi we will be competitive."The
Nielsen admitted India were better "over the past five days" but would not concede anything else.
Tests," he said.
Nielsen said it was important for his team not to obsess over the conditions.
Cameron White has been serviceable in his first two Tests without being consistently dangerous, while the offspinner Jason Krejza has been overlooked since suffering harsh punishment in the tour match in Hyderabad.
Krejza was originally picked in the squad ahead of White and might come into calculations if the Delhi pitch looks like offering sharp turn.
Steve Waugh, Australia's former captain, said the slow bowling was not the reason for the heavy defeat in Mohali.
Cameron White," Waugh wrote in the Hindu.
"After all, he has just started his career and it's too early to jump to conclusions.
They picked Jason Krejza because they reckoned he was good enough to play, so it's better to try him out rather than to die wondering."Australia
Zaheer was simply unplayable.
Next ball, Brett Lee had no clue to one pitched fractionally shorter and had his stumps splayed.
Three wickets had fallen for three runs.
With nine men around the bat, Mitchell Johnson averted the hat-trick.
Zaheer had slowly built up his momentum through the fourth day and struck gold on the fifth morning.
He got the ball to move slightly away from the batsmen, and was very accurate.
Like Australia had done for the last decade and more, India did that very well in Mohali.
They were, unquestionably, the superior side in this Test.
It has been worse than that.
It has been worse than that.
Most worryingly, they are not sure where to bowl.
In Bangalore the suffocation worked, as it had in the series win in 2004, due to tight bowling.
During this game it has been the kind of operation expected of Test minnows, not those at the top of the table.
No amount of manoeuvring by the captain or the coach can cover consistent mis-direction.
India's batsmen are amazing in their own conditions, but the Australians are refusing to learn.
In Bangalore the lower order was allowed to escape and it happened again in Mohali.
On Friday the new-ball spells of Brett Lee and Siddle allowed India to speed to 70 in 14 overs.
Yet, he decided to make this his final season for the Rajasthan Royals on the insistence of the team owners who felt that he was the ultimate source of inspiration for the team on and off the field.
But they possessed an adequate amount of money to buy some of the world’s finest T20 players, which they did not exactly.
The other players were mostly from the domestic circuits, but were confident individuals following Rajasthan winning the Ranji Trophy that year.
The match against the Royal Challengers Bangalore in Bangalore was washed out due to rain, which made Rajasthan’s task of making it into the last four much tougher.
Shaun Marsh was in great nick and his 42-ball 71 resulted in the Royals losing to Kings XI Punjab in Mohali by 48 runs.
But again it was inconsistency which let the Royals down badly.
They won against Sunrisers Hyderabad in the eliminator but lost to Mumbai Indians in the second qualifier, which led to their exit from the tournament.
Shane Watson was declared the Man of the tournament.
The team anthem is 'Halla Bol'.
Kerala has produced two Indian test cricketers, Tinu Yohannan and S. Sreesanth .
The team also lined up ex-Indian International player Sadagoppan Ramesh for two years from 2005 to 2007.
This article is about all-rounders in cricket.
An all-rounder such as Andrew Flintoff is skilled at both batting .
Batsmen tend to reach their peak in their late twenties after their technique has matured through experience.
Conversely, fast bowlers often peak in their early to mid twenties at the height of their physical prowess.
Other bowlers, mostly spinners but also fast bowlers who can "swing" the ball, are most effective in their later careers.
Woolley took over 2000 wickets in his career, scored more runs than anyone except Jack Hobbs and is the only non-wicketkeeper to have taken more than 1000 catches.
They were all very athletic fields and safe catchers.
Essentially, an all-rounder is better at bowling than batting or vice versa.
Very few are equally good at both and hardly any have been outstanding at both.
An all-rounder who missed out on Test Cricket due to the apartheid era of the 1970s and 1980s was the South African Clive Rice .
His first-class batting average was 40.95 and his bowling average was 22.49.
Another outstanding South African all-rounder was Mike Procter who played only seven tests for the same reason, taking 41 wickets at an average of 15.02.
His batting averages were 25.11 in tests and 36.01 in first-class cricket, and he scored 48 first-class centuries in 401 matches including an equal-record six in consecutive innings.
Parasurama threw his axe across the sea, and the water receded as far as it reached.
According to legend, this new area of land extended from Gokarna to Kanyakumari .
The Devas pleaded before Lord Vishnu, who took his fifth incarnation as Vamana and pushed Mahabali down to Patala  to placate the Devas.
They are locally known as "muniyara", derived from muni .
The spice trade was mainly along the water routes .
In foreign-trade circles the region was known as Male or Malabar.
Sangam literature describes Roman ships coming to Muziris in Kerala, laden with gold to exchange for pepper.
However, he was dropped after the next Test and was banished to the domestic set-up.
Surprisingly, he is among the 16 members that the selectors finally pick for the series, and he returns to energise India's top-order during the famous Perth win.
Merchants from West Asia and Southern Europe established coastal posts and settlements in Kerala.
Buddhism and Jainism disappeared from the land.
The path Vasco da Gama took to reach India The maritime spice trade monopoly in the Indian Ocean stayed with Arabs during the High and Late Middle Ages .
Teams Padmanabhan Prasanth played for You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Astonishingly, he reaches the landmark as early as the 44th over, and is finally dismissed for 219.
Michael Clarke was in England three years ago and is certain the mood in this team will remain much brighter despite the 320-run thrashing in Mohali.
Ashes series and we couldn't pull anything back," Clarke said.
"I don't think that's like that here.
We've still seen some very good individual performances so far, we just need the whole team to click."Australia were out-batted and out-bowled throughout the second Test and when the players return from three days off they will work on ways to counter India's reverse-swing, spin and increasingly aggressive attitude.
The Mohali result means Australia have not beaten India in their past four Tests, starting with the loss in Perth in the aftermath of the Sydney affair .
Test I've lost for Australia and it certainly won't be the last," he said.
"It can also go the other way.
With one good innings, it can turn around so quickly.
He was pleased to break through with 69 before he confirmed the loss and was the last man out.
Clarke said his bowing had been "okay" in the first two Tests, but he will need to create some more incisions to help the team in the third game.
I know we're going to have to face some good spinners and some good reverse-swing bowlers.
Clarke said Australia's approach would not change.
In the Australian team we win, we want to win every game we play."At
His on-side game is comparable to his idol Azharuddin's, yet he is decidedly more assured on the off side and has the rare gift of being able to hit the same ball to either side.
The Australians, who have suffered more than most, paid the highest compliment after India's 2003-04 tour Down Under by admitting they did not know where to bowl to him.
Between dazzling and sometimes workmanlike hundreds, he has suffered the frustration of numerous twenties and thirties and has lost his place in the one-day side.
Nothing, though, has deterred him from tormenting his favourite opponents with silken strokes and piles of runs: in the course of the double-hundred at Feroz Shah Kotla in 2008, he became the second Indian batsman after Tendulkar to score more than 2000 runs against the Australians.
With India losing those matches badly, his future as an international player was suddenly under threat.
There were calls from former players and commentators questioning Laxman's selection for the two-Test home series against New Zealand in August 2012.
But the nightwatchman did his job, and more.
Australia went in with that plan afterwards for Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Sourav Ganguly, too, and the two received the gifts with ferocity and gratitude.
Wise move of the day In the 128th over of India's innings, Dhoni disproved the law of equal and opposite reaction.
White smartly didn't go for the catch.
But White did make sure his tour didn't end right there, because had he got his hands to the ball, only God could have blessed his fingers.
Zaheer got some help from Asad Rauf in dismissing Hayden off the third ball of the innings.
He dismissed Hayden in the second innings, too, lbw this time with one that might have just slid down leg.
Again, in Hayden's third innings of the series, Hayden contrived to get out.
The ball hit his pad, then his inside edge, and then the middle stump.
He had spent more than nine hours on the field.
He split his webbing on the right hand in the process, and had to go off to get two stitches on the webbing.
But when he came back later in the day, he seemed back to full fitness.
Oops, Rudi did it again What he gave to Ganguly yesterday, Rudi Koertzen took from Dhoni today.
When he was given out lbw off Peter Siddle, it appeared he had played the ball, and at any rate it hit Dhoni outside the line of off stump.
The bat stayed low, and seeing there was no way to move out of the line, he took the blow on his body.
And Dhoni went back to hooking.
Sourav Ganguly's ability to polarise opinion led to one of the most fascinating dramas in Indian cricket.
Breaking point was reached when his differences with Greg Chappell leaked into public domain and his career was in jeopardy when India began their remarkable revival under Rahul Dravid.
Others, as always, thought otherwise and they were proved right when he was included in the Test squad for the away series in South Africa in 2006-2007.
Two days before the first Test, he said the series would be his last.
His highest score on the tour is 29, against Queensland.
June 21 and 22, 1996Test debut is different In his first Test, at Lord's, scores an imperious century.
If it's Toronto, it has to be Ganguly High point of his career.
Is the leading scorer and wicket-taker in the Sahara Cup .
With 222 runs at 55.5 and 15 wickets at 10.66, he wins four Man-of-the-Match awards in five matches, and is the most unanimous Man of the Series, as India beat Pakistan 4-1.
With 392 runs at an average of 98, ends the three-Test home series against Sri Lanka as top scorer and Man of the Series.
He and Tendulkar  put together 252 runs as India win the Singer-Akai-Nidahas Trophy final by six runs.
A day when he, in partnership, looks like breaking every batting record in the book.
India win the series 2-1.
Signs up to replace Muttiah Muralitharan as Lancashire's overseas cricketer.
The announcement comes after Tendulkar has resigned from captaincy.
Is named full-time captain after the series.
Do not fill this in!==Playing
Style== Padmanabhan is an .<ref>http://cricketarchive.com/Archive/Players/8/8738/8738.html</ref>By
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!==Biography==
Padmanabhan was born in .
Tête-à-tête with match-referee In an unprecedented and highly controversial action, Ganguly and five other Indian players are summoned by Mike Denness, the match-referee, and warned for excessive appealing during the Port Elizabeth Test .
Paying them in the same currency Is seen waving his shirt emphatically at the Lord's balcony as an incredible win in the NatWest Series final caps off impressive back-to-back tours of West Indies and England.
India draw the series 1-1.
Also with 15 Test wins, he becomes India's most successful captain.
Pakistan side triumphs in the decider at Bangalore, virtually signalling the end of the successful Ganguly-Wright relationship.
Ganguly goes public with his dismay at Chappell's suggestions during the match that he step down from the captaincy, and the media goes wild.
The tour goes on, with India unsurprisingly beating Zimbabwe 2-0.
On the team's return to India Ganguly is publicly ostracised and there are more and more calls for his sacking.
Passes the thorny baton The selectors end his five-year reign as Test captain when they pick Rahul Dravid to lead India in the Tests against Sri Lanka.
Does not bat in the first Test, is dropped for the second, and scores 34 and 37 in the third in Karachi .
Is not picked for the home Tests against England.
Beginning of the end of the end India are doing miserably in South Africa, having lost all the one-dayers.
Ganguly is picked for the Tests.
Ganguly comes in and scores 83, India win, and take momentum into the Test series.
Ganguly is the leading run-getter for India.
India go on to score 338 and win by 14 runs.
His last two centuries are Bulawayo, 2005 and Brisbane, 2003.
Pakistan are at the receiving end, as he top-scores with 534 runs in three Tests at an average of 89, and is the Man of the Series.
Later calls it one of his best Test innings.
Prev Showing 11 of 12 Next »'I've decided to quit'Two days before the start of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy, announces it will be his last series.
"I just want to say that this is going to be my last series.
I've decided to quit.
I told my team-mates before coming here.
Those are also his only two to date.
He pulls the short ones capably and hits 20 boundaries in what seems an inevitable century.
The kits are still white, the ball is still swinging, and India-Pakistan clashes are still rare.
He is winning matches with the bat too, the most significant being the run-a-ball 75 as India successfully chase 160 in 26 overs.
He ends up the best batsman and the best bowler in both the sides.
He is the Man of the Match in the first match of the next year's Sahara Cup too.
A target of over 300 has been chased successfully only once in the past.
India are chasing 315 against Pakistan, in the third of the best-of-three finals.
After Dravid sets the pace, Ganguly goes on to make it his day.
He moves from elegant to downright brutal, his century coming up in 119 balls, and the next 83 in only 39 balls.
He hangs in, though, to find able support in Robin Singh, as they put on 119 in the last 11.3 overs.
Ganguly is in supreme touch and with 18 fours and three sixes, scores about 59 per cent of the team runs in exactly half of the legal deliveries.
For good measure, he bowls economically as first change after Nathan Astle has got stuck into Debasis Mohanty.
Pakistan, though, have improved during the one-dayers; India are yet to win their first international.
He puts on 88 in 15 overs with Tendulkar for the first wicket, 87 in 20 with Dravid for the second, and makes sure the good work is not squandered by staying there until the 49th over.
He does come good, playing sensibly and in partnership with Dravid, negating the threat of Muttiah Muralitharan.
It wouldn't be unfair to say this is the test of Ganguly's manhood.
His batting record as captain is not impressive, Australians have, as tradition is, gone after the captain.
Amid talk of chin music and talks of trying to defend the batting order by opting to bowl first, Ganguly walks in at 62 for 3, last three having fallen for one run.
The off side is packed, waiting for what they think is an inevitable catch.
Instead, Ganguly peppers the field with 87 runs through the off side, with 12 boundaries.
For 65.2 overs and 300 runs, Pakistan can only watch the two sprint away with the game.
When Yuvraj gets out for 169, Ganguly is unbeaten on 124.
He is no mood to give up yet, and goes on to score his first double-century, and when he gets out with the team total at 605, the matter has been put beyond Pakistan.
The obituaries, written for three years now and brushed up time and again, can safely be burnt.
After South Africa have scored 265, their fast bowlers have made life hell for Indian batsmen.
Ganguly not only survives, but takes control of the rest of the innings, scoring 87 out of the 166 that are scored during his stay at the crease.
Although his runs come in 119 deliveries, he never looks hurried, serene almost.
He later calls this one of his best innings in Test cricket, and for good reason.
There would be other milestones to follow, too: Tendulkar would go past 12,000 runs and Sourav Ganguly past 7000.
But when Tendulkar bats as he did for the next two hours, distractions don't matter.
Effortlessly, he brought people back to the actual game and, with Ganguly's help, India into the match.
He has scored 427 runs in nine innings on comeback, against tough opposition and in trying conditions, but his best has been 72.
In 19 Tests Gambhir only has one century, against Bangladesh.
That should be enough to rile and inspire him.
The way he batted in the first session today, it seemed certain Gambhir would end that century drought.
For some reason, despite being an excellent rotator of strike in limited-overs cricket, he got bogged down when the field spread and the bowling became accurate.
Having eased to 25 from 39 balls, Gambhir slowed down.
He went into lunch on 53 from 90 balls and in the next hour or so he faced 50 balls for just 14 runs.
If this was uncharacteristic, so was Dravid's innings.
Instead of the patchy starts he's had recently, Dravid began, instinctively speaking, the way he did when at the top of his game.
But this was his 11th score between 30 and 100, to go with one century, in his last 15 Tests.
When scoring was made difficult, Dravid didn't seem to show the kind of patience one associates with him.
In his prime Dravid would have left such deliveries alone for the neghed at how badly they bowled.
The pattern continued in the second innings on Sunday, and again on Monday.
After giving away 100 in 23 overs on the third afternoon, they allowed India 55 runs in the first ten of the next morning.
The rate for the day was five an over.
Free rein was given instead.
The bowling coach Troy Cooley is travelling with the team, but his magic either hasn't worked in India or has worn off.
Cooley was part of England's sweet success in 2005, when the fast men curled the ball at will and exposed Australia's weakness against movement.
This time Australia is behind on the trickery again.
Watson also spoke about getting one side of the ball really rough while keeping the other shiny.
This is reverse-swing at its most elementary level.
The Indians must be laughing.
When Australia bat it's tempting to think the bone-coloured surface has turned green.
All had an economy rate of less than three runs an over in India and collected between 19 and 33 wickets.
When Australia bat it's tempting to think the bone-coloured surface has turned green.
It hasn't Lee, who is giving up 3.16 an over, has been the biggest problem.
He is not as tall as his former team-mates and the lack of bounce has taken away one of his weapons.
In the year leading up to this series he was the best bowler in the game.
Mitchell Johnson has performed extremely well in India until the second innings in Mohali, where he rejoined the pack.
Siddle is young, raw and bowling as expected while Shane Watson, Michael Clarke and Cameron White are doing the same.
It is not the way the Australians came to play, but at the moment they don't seem capable of doing anything about it.
Australia have forgotten about containment and it has cost them.
His maturity was recognised when he was named as Australia's Twenty20 captain in 2011.
The youngest skipper in their history, he won rave reviews for his cool head and warm handling of more hardened contemporaries.
As the series wore on it became clear he was not the answer to Australia's troubles and after four matches he was shifted aside with five wickets and 146 runs.
A clean striker of the ball who plundered ten centuries in two seasons of county cricket in 2006 and 2007, White has at times strangely struggled to convert his good starts into first-class hundreds back home.
On how long he thinks he can keep the record:I don't what is going to happen in future.
There might be another 16-year-old, who might not be having any targets and who knows where he is going to go.
It will come at some stage.
There was no burden as such.
"I did not feel anything about the poor crowd attendance.
We were close to it in 2003.
It was so close yet so far.
I'm not looking that far ahead .
I just want go out and enjoy myself and my game and not think of any targets.
Mohali:"I always wanted to do it in front of the home crowd and I'm quite happy that an Indian has achieved that record.
It is not my record, it is India's record.
I'm happy it has been done here."On
"It is not my family style to go over at the top.
I know they will be extremely happy."It
Sachin Tendulkar's press conference.
He had answered wide-ranging questions, not all pertaining to the match or his record.
Before the next question came his way, the media coordinator asked him if he would like to continue.
Tendulkar moved away from the mike, and although he could not be heard, it seemed he said something to the effect of "Why not?"
Tendulkar was in that kind of mood.
"I just wanted to go enjoy every moment.

I can't be running after every record .
I would be looking after what the team needs.
The team obviously needs it.
If it doesn't come, there will be no regrets."Despite
As the career progresses, there is sub-consciousness mind starts thinking about it,
"You know that people start talking about it the records.
That is how you are aware of all these things.
A couple of team-mates did not believe.
That is when they believed.
The beauty is just to go out and play, and while doing that the records were meant to be broken and various milestones achieved."What

He reminded Tendulkar of the fact that he was his partner when Tendulkar got his 35th century.
".Almost in paternal manner, he subtly put his critics in their place.
I don't need to prove anything to anyone,
The talk eventually went back to the celebration when he got the record.
The duration  was bit worrying.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!==
For example, during the England–New Zealand  has given up wicket-keeping completely since 2013.
In 1846 William Clarke formed the All-England Eleven .
These matches were arguably the most important contest of the English season, if judged by the quality of the players.
The first overseas tour occurred in September 1859 with England touring North America.
This team had six players from the All-England Eleven, six from the United All-England Eleven and was captained by George Parr .
This first Australian tour were mostly against odds of at least 18/11.
The match, starting on 15 March 1877 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground came to be regarded as the inaugural Test match.
The combined Australian XI won this Test match by 45 runs with Charles Bannerman of Australia scoring the first Test century.
Prior to this, England teams for home Tests had been chosen by the club on whose ground the match was to be played.
The start of the 20th century saw mixed results for England as they lost four of the eight Ashes series between 1900 and 1914.
England would go on one more tour against South Africa before the outbreak of World War I. .England's first match after the war was in the 1920–21 season against Australia.
Six Australians scored hundreds while Mailey spun out 36 English batsmen.
Things were no better in the next few Ashes series losing the 1921 Ashes series 3–0 and the 1924–5 Ashes 4–1.
On the same year the West Indies became the fourth nation to be granted Test status and played their first game against England.
In the 1929–30 season England went on two concurrent tours with one team going to New Zealand  and the other to the West Indies.
Despite sending two separate teams England won both tours beating New Zealand 1–0 and the West Indies 2–1.
Note the number of leg-side fielders.
He scored 254 at Lord's, 334 at Headingley and 232 at the Oval.
Australia regained the Ashes winning the series 3–1.
Fast leg theory involved bowling fast balls directly at the batsman's body.
English cricket team at the Test match held at the Brisbane Exhibition Ground .
Using his fast leg theory England won the next Ashes series 4–1.
Causing intensely bitter feeling between players as well as injury.
In our opinion is unsportsmanlike.
Unless stopped at once likely to upset friendly relations existing between Australia and England.
Later, Jardine was removed from the captaincy and the laws of cricket changed so that no more than one fast ball aimed at the body was permitted per over, and having more than two fielders behind square leg were banned.
England's following tour of India in the 1933–34 season was the first Test match to be staged in the subcontinent.
The series was also notable for Morris Nichols and Nobby Clark bowling so many bouncers that the Indian batsman wore solar topees instead of caps to protect themselves.
Australia won the 1934 Ashes series 2–1 and would keep the urn for the following 19 years.
England lead 1–0 going into the final timeless match at Durban.
A record 1,981 runs were scored, and the concept of timeless Tests was abandoned.
These loses were tempered by victories against India and South Africa.
Their fortunes would change in the 1953 Ashes tour as they won the series 1–0.
The 1956 series was remembered for the bowling of Jim Laker who took 46 wickets at 9.62 which included bowling figures of 19/90 at Old Trafford .
After drawing to South Africa, England defeated the West Indies and New Zealand comfortably.
The early and middle 1960s were poor periods for English cricket.
Despite England's strength on paper, Australia held the Ashes and the West Indies dominated England in the early part of the decade.
During this period they beat New Zealand, India, the West Indies, Pakistan and, under Ray Illingworth 's determined leadership, regained The Ashes from Australia in 1970–71.
The 1970s, for the England team, can be largely split into three parts.
The early 70s saw Ray Illingworth 's side dominate world cricket winning the Ashes away in 1971 and then retaining them at home in 1972.
The same side beat Pakistan at home in 1971 and played by far the better cricket against India that season.
However, England were largely helped by the rain to sneak the Pakistan series 1–0 but the same rain saved India twice and one England collapse saw them lose to India.
This was, however, one of  strongest England team ever with Boycott, Edrich, D'Oliveira, Amiss, Illingworth, Knott, Snow, Underwood amongst its core.
The mid-1970s were more turbulent.
Mike Denness was the surprising choice but only lasted 18 months; his results against poor opposition were good but England were badly exposed as ageing and lacking in good fast bowling against the 1974–75 Australians, losing that series 4–1 to lose the Ashes.
Denness was replaced in 1975 by Tony Greig .
While he managed to avoid losing to Australia, his side were largely thrashed the following year by the young and very much upcoming West Indies for whom Greig's infamous "grovel" remark acted as motivation.
Greig's finest hour was probably the 1976–77 win over India in India.
When Greig was discovered as being instrumental in World Series Cricket, he was sacked, and replaced by Mike Brearley .
Brearley's side showed again the hyperbole that is often spoken when one side dominates in cricket.
In this time, undoubted highlights were the Ashes victories of 1981 "Botham's Ashes", 1985 and 1986–87.
The 1985 and 1986–87 victories, while sweet for the team, exposed more Australia's weakness than England's strength.
Even in 2011, one or two successful county players have been shown up as physically unfit for international cricket.
So bad was England's bowling in 1993 that Rodney Marsh described England's pace attack at one point as "pie throwers".
Having lost three of the first four Tests played in England in 1993 Graham Gooch resigned to be replaced by Mike Atherton .
Scotland sever ties with the England and Wales team, and begin to compete independently as the Scotland national cricket team .
By 1999, with coach David Lloyd resigning after the World Cup exit and new captain Nasser Hussain just appointed, England hit rock bottom  after losing in shambolic fashion to New Zealand 2–1.
England's results in Asia improved markedly that winter with series wins against both Pakistan and Sri Lanka though one-day success still eluded them.
England's fortunes improved under the new management – not without the occasional "blip" particularly against Australia but home Test wins became commonplace.
Michael Vaughan took over and, while keeping the emphasis as Hussain on fitness and control, encouraged players to express themselves.
A 2–0 defeat in Pakistan was followed by two drawn away series with India and Sri Lanka .
Meanwhile, England's injury problems allowed previously marginal Test players such as Paul Collingwood and Ian Bell to consolidate their places in the team.
In the event, England, captained by Flintoff who was deputising for the injured Vaughan, lost all five Tests to concede the first Ashes whitewash in 86 years.
Even so, the unimpressive nature of most of their victories in the tournament, combined with heavy defeats by New Zealand, Australia and South Africa, left many commentators criticising the manner in which the England team approached the one-day game.
Moores was replaced as coach by Zimbabwean Andy Flower .
The second Twenty20 World Cup was held in England in 2009 but England suffered an opening day defeat to the Netherlands.
They recovered to defeat both eventual champions Paxt half hour; today, he went for the next delivery and failed to connect properly.
Three overs later he went to cut another wide one, which was marginally too full, and chopped it onto his stumps.
At this point Australia had taken three wickets, only one of them earned.
Thankfully for India Tendulkar, once he'd acquired Lara's record, batted with fluency.
There was nothing circumspect about the way he played after tea.
Ganguly took the initiative, but it was Tendulkar who showed Australia how hopelessly unhelpful the pitch was on the first day.
There was no discrimination: no bowler nor shot escaped Tendulkar.
Ganguly, in distinct patches of quietness and aggressive intent, was solid throughout.
The difference in India's approach after tea was clear: the first time Tendulkar faced the new ball he deposited it to the cover boundary.
Australia were reduced to being honest witnesses who relied on the batsmen's mercies and mistakes.
And tomorrow, there won't be as many distractions from Test cricket.
His immediate predecessor was Adam Gilchrist, whose presence prevented Haddin from making his Test debut until the age of 30.
Never was he more important than in during the 2013-14 Ashes clean-sweep, when he bailed Australia out of tricky positions in every first innings of the campaign.
His 493 runs at 61.62 put him second only to David Warner on the run tally and he was nimble behind the stumps, and it was only Mitchell Johnson's reign of terror that prevented Haddin being Player of the Series.
By 2014, he was again Australia's preferred keeper in all three formats after two years earlier being usurped by Matthew Wade in all three.
Haddin had originally lost his Test spot to Wade after flying home from the 2012 West Indies tour when his 17-month-old daughter Mia was diagnosed with cancer.
At 34, it seemed as though his international career might be over, but Haddin showed his dedication by returning to domestic cricket and winning back his place for the 2013 Ashes tour, when Australia's selectors wanted his experience and poise.
In his 16th Test innings he passed 50 for the first time and went on to 169 against New Zealand in Adelaide, showing flashes Gilchrist would have accepted.
An important one-day batsman who shuffled around the order, Haddin also had the chance to captain Australia in T20s in 2009 when Ricky Ponting, Clarke and Michael Hussey were rested.
A broken finger gave Graham Manou an opening at Edgbaston, but Haddin returned for the final two Tests.
A lean home series against India followed, before Wade took his place in the West Indies.
Two years later he was playing for New South Wales, and played in their successful Pura Cup/Sheffield Shield finals of 2002-03 and 2007-08, and captained them to the title in 2004-05.
The ending, in India's eyes, was pure Bollywood.
Ravindra Jadeja ran out his adversary, James Anderson.
Ishant's bohemian side was captured by the occasional appearance of non-cricket coloured purple pants as he tore in to bowl, East Perth replaced six years on by St John's Wood.
England's innings ended in the 89th over, but the new ball was never even taken.
There was no skill and fortitude after that, not from England anyway.
India's dressing room morale would have been shaken.
Root struck three boundaries in that first over back, passing his half-century on the way.
With England 170 for 4, an unlikely victory 149 runs away, it was India's lowest point.
There had only been one successful chase at Lord's beyond 319 and only 27 successful chases of 300 or above in Test history.
Such debates were silenced by Ishant.
Instead, he chose aggression, eager to make progress against the short stuff.
With the new ball theoretically only two balls away, Prior hooked Ishant to deep midwicket with three men laid out for the trap.
At least Root's swivel pull later in the over had an element of control, but he picked out deep square all the same.
India's only other win at Lord's came in 1986.
He was replaced by Mike Gatting as captain after India won at Lord's.
But at his post-match press conference he insisted that he had no intention of resigning.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Bibliographic details for "Padmanabhan Prasanth "Publisher: Wikipedia, Thel independence in 1966, Barbados was under uninterrupted English and later British governance and was the only Caribbean island that did not change hands during the colonial period.
In the very early years, the majority of the population was white and male, with African slaves providing little of the workforce.
Cultivation of tobacco, cotton, ginger and indigo was handled primarily by European indentured labour until the start of the sugar cane industry in the 1640s.
Its House of Assembly began meeting in 1639.
Among the island's earliest leading figures was the Anglo-Dutch Sir William Courten .
The 1780 hurricane killed over 4,000 people on Barbados.
Barbados is the easternmost island in the Lesser Antilles .
It is flat in comparison to its island neighbours to the west, the Windward Islands .
The island rises gently to the central highland region, with the high point of the nation being Mount Hillaby in the geological Scotland District 340 metres  above sea level.
In the parish of Saint Michael lies Barbados' capital and main city, Bridgetown .
Barbados lies on the boundary of the South American and the Caribbean Plates .
A large proportion of the island is circled by coral reefs .
The country generally experiences two seasons, one of which includes noticeably higher rainfall.
Annual precipitation ranges between 40 and 90 inches .
Infrequent natural hazards include earthquakes, landslips and hurricanes .
Barbados is often spared the worst effects of the region's tropical storms and hurricanes during the rainy season.
Its location in the south-east of the Caribbean region puts the country just outside the principal hurricane strike zone .
Barbados, seen from the International Space Station .
Barbados is susceptible to environmental pressures.
The government has placed great emphasis on protecting the catchment areas that lead directly into the huge network of underground aquifers and streams.
Many initiatives to mitigate human pressures on the coastal regions of Barbados and seas come from the Coastal Zone Management Unit  .
Barbados is host to four species of nesting turtles  and has the second-largest hawksbill turtle breeding population in the Caribbean.
Though on the opposite side of the Atlantic, and some 4800 km west of Africa, Barbados is one of many places in the American continent that experiences heightened levels of mineral dust from the Sahara Desert .
Government and politics Main article: Religion in New Zealand Christianity is the predominant religion in New Zealand, although its society is among the most secular in the world.
Social organisation was largely communal with families  whose position was subject to the community's approval.
Niuean dancers at Auckland's Pasifika festival The largely rural life in early New Zealand led to the image of New Zealanders being rugged, industrious problem solvers.
Even though the majority of the population now lives in cities, much of New Zealand's art, literature, film and humour has rural themes.
As part of the resurgence of Māori culture, the traditional crafts of carving and weaving are now more widely practised and Māori artists are increasing in number and influence.
Māori decorated the white wood of buildings, canoes and cenotaphs using red  paint and painted pictures of birds, reptiles and other designs on cave walls.
Radio first arrived in New Zealand in 1922 and television in 1960.
Most of the major sporting codes played in New Zealand have British origins.
A victory for each team followed before the series was decided at The Oval .
The following winter, they thrashed Australia 3–1 to retain the Ashes; it was their first series win in Australia for 24 years, and included three innings victories and 766 runs by opener Alastair Cook .
Despite beating South Africa and tying with eventual winners India, England suffered shock losses to Ireland and Bangladesh before losing in the quarter-finals to Sri Lanka.
It was their first home series loss since 2008, against the same opposition.
This loss saw the resignation of Strauss as captain .
In doing so, Cook became the first ever captain to score centuries in his first five Tests as captain and became England's leading century-maker with 23 hundreds.
A 3–0 home win secured England the urn for the fourth time in five series.
Following the tour, head coach Andy Flower resigned his post whilst batsman Kevin Pietersen was dropped indefinitely from the England team.
Life and career He made his debut for his native Yorkshire in 1976, before moving to Gloucestershire in 1984.
He captained the side in 1989, and scored four hundreds in successive innings while there.
In 1993, he moved to Sussex, and passed the increasingly rare landmark of 25,000 first class runs when he made an unbeaten century against Somerset in 1997.
He left New Road at the end of 2000.
He played 467 first class matches and batted 784 times with 71 not outs.
He also played Minor Counties cricket for Suffolk .
Selected for the 1986/87 tour of Australia as middle order cover, he ended up opening in all five Tests with Chris Broad .
His top score was 96 in Perth .
In the 1987 summer, he was initially meant to revert to the middle order, but an injury to Broad meant that he opened in the first Test with Tim Robinson .
However, in the second Test he reverted to number three, and made his only Test hundred at Lord's .
He missed only one of twenty Test matches from 1986 to 1988.
Nevertheless, his 23 Test appearances were spread over eight years.
He made his debut in the Centenary Test at Lord's in 1980, and eight years later appeared in the Bicentennial Test in Sydney, along with fellow survivors John Emburey and Mike Gatting .
He was suspended for playing in South Africa in 1990, but the suspension was remitted two years later when South Africa rejoined the world game.
Athey now works at Dulwich College school in South London, as the First XI Cricket Coach.
He also takes the Second XI football team, and is house master of Old Blew, one of the four Dulwich College boarding houses.
Athey also played football and was on the books of Brentford Reserves in the early 1980s.
County and Test career This biographical section needs additional citations for verification .
Please help by adding reliable sources .
Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful.
He was clocked at 75 mph at the age of 14, although the only issue was that the majority of his bowling was waist-high.
Despite this, Indian coach Gary Kirsten said that Mishra would be dropped if Kumble recovered for the Third Test.
However, Harbhajan Singh was injured so Mishra retained his place when Kumble came in.
Kumble was then injured during the Test and retired, leaving Mishra as India's first-choice Test leg spinner.
Mishra was selected for the early-2009 Test tour of New Zealand, but India opted to field only one spinner, and he watched as Harbhajan performed the spin duties alone.
India's next Test was not until November 2009.
Mishra was recalled for the tour of Bangladesh and played in the First Test in Chittagong as the only spinner after Harbhajan suffered an injury.
However, he was once again dropped in the next Test for Ojha.
If you would like to participate, please visit the project page .
This article is supported by WikiProject Delhi .
Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libellous .
If such material is repeatedly inserted, or if you have other concerns, please report the issue to this noticeboard .
If you are connected to one of the subjects of this article and need help, please see this page .
Jadhav was initially in the Royal Challengers Bangalore development squad, was signed by Delhi Daredevils in 2010.
He won the Man of the match award for this blistering innings.
India in Bangladesh 2014He was named in Indian squad for Bangladesh tour but there he didn't get any game to play.
India won the series with 3-0 white wash.
During the tour, he also made his T20I debut.
Dhawan first played for Delhi Under-16s in the 1999/00 Vijay Merchant Trophy.
In the 2000/01 Vijay Merchant Trophy in which Delhi finished runners-up, Dhawan was the leading run-scorer.
He played three games in that tournament and averaged 85.
Dhawan made his first-class debut for Delhi against Andhra during the 2004-05 Ranji Trophy in November 2004 and scored 49 on his debut innings.
He had scores of 30, 40 and 26, unable to convert the starts into big knocks.
He was selected in the North Zone squad for Duleep Trophy later that month.
Dhawan was selected in the India Green squad in the Challenger Trophy in October 2008.
Dhawan returned to form in the 2008-09 Ranji season by scoring 415 runs and averaging over 69.
Dhawan played for India Red in the Challenger Trophy in October 2009.
He averaged 48.33 in that tournament which India Red won.
Dhawan was selected in the Rest of India squad to play against the defending Ranji champions Mumbai in the Irani Cup in October 2010.
He scored 83 in the first innings and 13 in the second innings as Rest of India won by 361 runs.
The Test series had just concluded with India winning 2-0.
Rest of India went on to win the match by 404 runs, and Dhawan was awarded the man of the match for his efforts.
Delhi managed to reach the semifinal which they lost to Mumbai .
Dhawan was in sublime form at the start of the 2012-13 season.
He was then selected in the Rest of India squad for 2013 Irani Cup match against Mumbai in February 2013.
He was the third-choice opener in the squad which consisted of Test regulars Virender Sehwag and Murali Vijay.
India chose Sehwag and Vijay over Dhawan in the first two Tests.
India won both the matches, but Sehwag was dropped from the squad for the remaining two Tests of the series owing to his poor form.
They were clean hits, all proper cricketing shots.
He pulled, he cut, he drove.
He was dismissed for 60 in the final match at Bangalore which India won to clinch the series.
In November 2013, after being unable to convert starts into big knocks in the tt he wanted to make amends.
I think that suited my form of batting because that is my strength.
I need to play to my strength which is going out there looking to score runs.
It is not only about hitting, it's about being fractionally more positive than others."There
Dhoni later revealed that watching Ganguly was the most special part of this Test.
"Sourav's getting to 7000 was very special.
This is his last series and he is just going out and enjoying the game.
He doesn't have any sort of pressure and that's how you want him to play.
Sourav at his best, when he is playing his shots, is very different to others."
And Ganguly, on his part, has played outstanding innings in both the Tests that Dhoni has captained.
The only way to beat Australia is to play good consistent cricket,
Dhoni had appealed but straightaway asked the umpire to call the third umpire because he was not sure.
Dhoni's response, however, was different.
So there was no point," Dhoni said.

Your eyes are closed at times but when you feel hard  on the gloves, you think it has carried to you.
Since, in this series, it is not about players, it is ultimately the umpire's decision whether to refer to the third umpire or not."His
However, like he did in Kanpur, Dhoni was wearing Anil Kumble's blazer when he went out for the toss.
Stand-in captain, stand-in blazer,
The way he is going they might need to stitch one for him soon.
First picked for the tour of India in 2008-09, Siddle made his Test debut in Mohali and hit Gautam Gambhir in the head with his first ball, before claiming Sachin Tendulkar as his maiden Test wicket.
His comeback could hardly have been more memorable.
Adelaide again proved eventful for Siddle the next season.
By the closing stages of day five with Australia seeking two wickets to win, Siddle was down on his haunches between balls, exhausted and, he later admitted, "a little bit delirious".
Siddle struggled for impact on Australia's hopeless 2012-13 tour of India but was typically persistent and reliable in the back-to-back Ashes campaigns in 2013-14.
He showed intelligence in his use of the crease to add variety and his ability to build pressure on England's batsmen with consistent lines and lengths made him an important, if under-rated, member of the attack.
For more detailed advice, see Citing Wikipedia .
England may have been spared another Lord's defeat in the 1980s when the sort of weather that spoiled so many Test matches there in the 1970s robbed this match of almost half the fourth day.
This came on the second day when French, England's injured wicket-keeper, was replaced by the former England wicket-keeper, R. W. Taylor.
French finally resumed his appointed role for one ball on Monday morning.
All these switches were made with the generous permission of New Zealand's captain, Coney.
With substitutes also needed for Willey and Foster and for Coney and Jeff Crowe, 29 players took the field at various times.
Even before the match, injuries had given England anxieties.
Dilley, the man who withdrew at Birmingham on the first morning of the third Test against India, was back.
Moxon, who replaced Benson as Gooch's opening partner, underpinned England's steady development to 248 for five after Gatting had won the toss.
Dilley's fast, accurate opening spell brought the wickets of Wright and Rutherford, but Edgar and Martin Crowe responded in their characteristic ways.
Their innings was ended by the first ball on Monday, their lead 35.
Instead, the latter's over-ambitious stroke on the final morning put an extra burden on the former.
Gooch, however, coped in masterly fashion and had the ideal partner in the resolute Willey.
The new ball, taken with England 146 in front with four hours left, was the last obstacle, and when it was surmounted Gooch played with great freedom in the afternoon sun.
For his innings which secured the draw for England, Gooch was named Man of the Match.
The overall attendance was 69,184 and receipts £531,434.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!===Test===
The following top 10 wicket-keepers for dismissals in Test cricket.<ref>{{cite
S'il n'a ni l'un de ses pieds ni la batte posés au sol entre la popping crease et le guichet qu'il défend, il est dit « out of his field ».
S'il est dans cette situation et manque la balle, il est stumped si le gardien récupère la balle et détruit le guichet avec celle-ci  .
One popping crease is drawn at each end of the pitch in front of each set of stumps.
The foot may be on the line as long as some part of his/her foot is behind the line.
This is described in Laws 29, 38, and 39 of the laws of cricket .
If the batsman facing the bowler  steps out of his ground to play the ball but misses and the wicket-keeper takes the ball and puts down the wicket, then the striker is out stumped .
The 'keeper, believing that in playing his shot the batsman has ventured beyond his popping crease, has broken the stumps with the ball in an attempt to dismiss him 'stumped'.
He is appealing to the umpire to review and either accept or refuse the dismissal.
Four return creases are drawn, one on each side of each set of stumps.
This is to stop the bowler from bowling at the batsmen from an unfair angle .
Bowlers 'use the crease' by varying the position of their feet, relative to the stumps, at the moment of delivery.
In so doing, they can alter the angle of delivery and the trajectory of the ball.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
The following wicket-keepers have taken 200 or more dismissals in one day cricket.<ref>{{cite
"I just don't want to play any more, to be honest.
I've been playing well for the last two years.
Sri Lanka series, I've had an outstanding two years," he said.
I'm just happy to get runs,
"I still hopefully have five innings to go .
I will try to do well and finish off well.
" he said.
I'm trying to do my best.
Ganguly became the fourth Indian batsman to go past 7000 Test runs.
"You will be remembered in what you have done in Test matches.
First Test matches, then one-day cricket," he said.
Not what they do in Twenty20."India
Ganguly felt performance, and not age, should be considered.
"It's going to be an individual decision for everyone.
Age is no bar," he said.
"It's the runs you get and people like  have been scoring runs.
They should be judged on their performance."Nov
Is it true that Batsmen are offensive, and bowlers defensive?
The meat from various wild game may also be used for steak cuts.
Houseboat rafts with rearing cages underneath.
Marketing and sales This section needs additional citations for verification .
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Such countries include Argentina, Ireland, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, the United States and the United Kingdom.
A total of 11.8 million animals were slaughtered in 2010.
A significant amount of Irish beef is exported to other countries, with over 50% of exported beef going to the United Kingdom.
aims to find the most tender and tasty sirloin steak
The pH is used solely to disqualify entrants and neither the 'marbling' or the '% cooking loss' have any effect on the outcome of the competition at any stage.
Their parallel competition which they run for lamb legs "Glammies" does take into account some of these other metrics when weighting the entrants for their ranking within the competition.
In the United Kingdom, steak is often served with chips and various vegetable accompaniments.
In the United States, cuts of beef for retail sale include various beefsteaks, as well as stew meat and hamburger meat.
Daneben ist er häufig an Dismissals beteiligt.
Einerseits wird der Ball oft vom Wicket-Keeper gefangen, wenn er den Schläger des Batsman nur knapp berührt hat.
Eine Stumping liegt vor, wenn der Wicket-Keeper das Wicket auf regelgerechte Weise zerstört und der Batsman zu diesem Zeitpunkt vor seiner Schlaglinie  steht und keinen Run zu erzielen versucht.
Schließlich fängt der Wicket-Keeper häufig Rückwürfe aus dem Feld, die dann zu einem Run Out führen, wenn der Batsman, der versucht, einen Run zu erzielen, nicht rechtzeitig hinter seine Schlaglinie kommt.
Dhawan made 12 runs from 13 balls.
He also made 60 runs against Afghanistan .
Dhawan finished the tournament with 192 runs.
He play two more matches in the tournament against West Indies and Bangladesh respectively.
India make it to the final where they lost to Sri Lanka .
He made 12 runs in the first innings and 29 runs in the second.
In the first match played at Cuttak he made 113 runs and put on 231 runs Opening stand with Ajinkya Rahane .
He made 79 runs off 80 balls in the 2nd match and 91 off 79 in 3rd match.
India won the series 5-0 and Dhawan finished the series as the 3rd highest run scorer.
He made 81 runs off 145 in the second innings.
He was dropped from last test due to poor form.
He score only 10 runs against Zimbabwe .
In India's next match against Bangladesh in the Quarter final Dhawan scored 30 runs of 38 ball and India won the match and advanced to Semi-Final where Dhawan made 45 runs of 41 balls but India lost the match and failed to qualify for Final.
Dhawan finished the tournament as the fifth highest runs scorer with 412 runs at an average of 51.50 and strike rate of 91.75.
With this, he also became only the third Indian opener after Sunil Gavaskar and Rahul Dravid to score back to back test hundred in away Tests.
During the match, he fracturing his right hand while fielding in the slips and was ruled out of the tour.
He was also the third highest scorer of the Delhi Daredevils team.
He was traded to the Mumbai Indians in exchange for Ashish Nehra .
For the fourth season he was bought by the Deccan Chargers for $300,000.
He was selected captain of the Sunrisers Hyderabad team prior to the start of the 2013 Champions League Twenty20 tournament.
Standing at 6'4", his rhythmic, high-arm action allowed him to bowl at around 140 kph.
For one who started serious cricket at 14, his rise was rapid and he made his Ranji Trophy debut at 18.
An injury to Munaf Patel provided him an opening during India's tour of Bangladesh in May 2007 but it was in Australia where he caught the attention, prompting Steve Waugh to call him the next best thing in Indian cricket.
He showed he could move the ball both ways and his probing spell in the second innings in Perth, where he set-up Ricky Ponting, is the stuff of folklore.
He continued to impress in the one-day series, clocking more than 150kph once, and ended as India's highest wicket-taker in the triumphant campaign.
By now Ishant was clearly Zaheer Khan's deputy in the Indian seam arsenal, but things have gone seriously wrong since.
The Indian selectors decided to be careful and began shielding him from the shorter formats of the game in 2009 in the hope that he would rediscover his zip.
His struggle continued but given India's limited seam-bowling resources at the time, Ishant was persisted with, even after an ankle surgery in 2012 that put him out of action for months.
When he completed 50 Tests in early 2013 he had among the worst averages for bowlers with 50 Test caps to their name.
Since then Ishant has somewhat revived his Test career.
He was impressive on the tour of New Zealand, being the top wicket-taker in Tests with 15 wickets that included two five-wicket hauls.
It was perhaps one of his best performances for India in whites.
Ishant failed to recover in time for the World Cup and was replaced by Mohit Sharma.
For any version listed below, click on its date to view it.
For more help, see Help:Page history and Help:Edit summary .
The Indian Under-19 cricket team represents the nation of India in cricket at Under-19 level.
The team is currently captained by Ricky Bhui and coached by former India cricketer Rahul Dravid .
The Indian team has won three Under-19 World Cups .
In 2000, they won it under the captaincy of Mohammad Kaif and in 2008, they won it under Virat Kohli 's leadership and in 2012 under the captaincy of Unmukt Chand .
A decision was made to form an all-Sinhalese club, and thus Sinhalese Sports Club was founded.
England won by 319 runs Player of the match: Stuart Broad India won the toss and elected to field.
Jedes Team hat stets nur einen Wicket-Keeper in seiner Aufstellung.
Es handelt sich um eine stark spezialisierte Aufgabe, die intensiv trainiert werden muss.
In den letzten Jahrzehnten wird allerdings zunehmend vom Wicket-Keeper erwartet, dass er auch über hinreichende Fähigkeiten als Batsman verfügt.
Dort kommen nicht selten Wicket-Keeper/Batsmen zum Einsatz, deren Fähigkeiten als Wicket-Keeper geringfügig schwächer als diejenigen eines reinen Wicket-Keepers sind, die dafür jedoch besondere Stärken als Batsman haben.
Als Werfer  wird der Wicket-Keeper nur in ganz seltenen Ausnahmefällen eingesetzt, weil dann ein anderer Feldspieler seine Aufgaben übernehmen muss.
Demgegenüber kommt es durchaus vor, dass ein Wicket-Keeper die Aufgabe des Kapitäns übernimmt, dem beim Cricket während des Fieldings besondere Bedeutung zukommt.
Da er bei jedem Wurf beteiligt ist, hat der Wicket-Keeper in aller Regel eine besondere Spielübersicht, die ihm dabei zugutekommt.
Personal life and early cricket Born in South Africa, BJ Watling's family moved to New Zealand when he was 10 years old.
While at Hamilton Boys' High School Watling was coached by former Test cricketer Chris Kuggeleijn .
During his time at school, Watling won the Gillette Cup twice and he played in the Under-19 Cricket World Cup in 2004.
Watling also scored 378 in the 2008 Hamilton senior club final, for Hamilton Old Boys against Eastern Suburbs.
Watling made his first-class debut for Northern Districts against Auckland on 6 December 2004 in the State Championship .
Watling opened with Tim McIntosh and they provided some uncharacteristic stability to New Zealand's opening partnership.
Watling, however, was out caught after an opening stand of 60 runs.
In the second innings, Watling hit an unbeaten, quickfire 60 runs from 62 balls, his first half century in Test cricket.
Watling and McIntosh made an opening stand of 90 before rain ended play and any New Zealand hopes of victory.
When Zimbabwe toured New Zealand in January 2012, incumbent wicket-keeper Reece Young was dropped because he did not score enough runs in the previous Test against Australia.
Watling and Kruger van Wyk were the front runners for the position, On 16–17 February 2014 Watling scored 124 runs against India.
His 352 run partnership with New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum was at the time the highest sixth wicket stand in test cricket history.
Both players posted their highest test scores, with Williamson not out on 242 and Watling not out on 142.
Watling has also been involved in three of the six highest 200+ run 6th-wicket partnerships in the team's history.
In 2015, he became stand-in captain for Black Caps for the tour against England while many players are still fulfilling his duties in the Indian Premier League .
During the first test against England, he suffered an injury that stopped him from keeping behind the wickets in the second innings and most of the first innings on the field, and was moved to the outfield.
His gloves were given to Tom Latham .
He hit well to the gaps and ran well between wickets.
When he got to 135, he scored the highest individual runs for an Otago Volts player.
McCullum played for Glamorgan in 2006 and he scored 160 opening the batting against Leicestershire in the County Championship.
This was an exercise to allow him to be eligible to play for them in the Twenty20 Champions League.
This sparked criticism however despite opinion States are permitted to have one overseas player in their squad.
McCullum also donated his match fee from the game to Otago Junior Cricket.
McCullum reached his 50 off 32 deliveries and his century off 65 deliveries.
His maiden Test century came several months later when he scored 143 against Bangladesh .
On 31 December 2007 he scored 50 from just 19 balls against Bangladesh.
On 18 April 2008, he achieved the highest Twenty20 individual score in an innings.
Englishman Graham Napier .
He returned to the Knight Riders in 2012.
He was given the role of opening the innings along with West Indian Dwayne Smith and the pair was considered as the most dangerous opening pair in the league's history.
Ross Taylor at first slip did the same.
This record was broken by Aaron Finch on the 29th of August against England, when he scored 156.
However McCullum still remains the only player to have scored two Twenty20 International centuries.
He was frequently passed over in favour of Alec Stewart on account of the latter's superior batting ability.
That day, he also adopted some suitably pungent language in response to the Aussies' sledging, and after he had scored 64 not out, the Aussies never tried it on him again.
For reasons of balance and depth in batting, Alec Stewart often got the gloves ahead of Russell due to his superior batting and increasingly reliable keeping.
Russell turned himself into part of the hub of Gloucestershire's one-day success, This biographical section needs additional citations for verification .
Please help by adding reliable sources .
Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful.
As can happen to many cricketers, if their era coincides with others who are as good, they are susceptible to whatever selection policies prevail.
Jack Russell vied for many years with Alec Stewart for one place.
This debate of whether Stewart  match in Guyana, crucially dropping Dinanath Ramnarine .
With Stewart being made captain immediately after this tour, the writing was on the wall for Russell, as Stewart batted at 3, kept wicket, and captained the side from 1998–1999.
The selectors signalled the end of Russell's international career in 1998–1999 when they selected Warren Hegg as Stewart's deputy.
In the final Test of the 1989 Ashes series  at the Oval, Derek Randall counted that he used the same bag for all five days, which roughly equates to 100 cups.
The fire damage could still be seen on the hat years later.
Russell has stated his desire that his hands be amputated after his death, and preserved in formaldehyde .
Although not studying art at school, he had an interest in art, expressed at an early age through diorama railway modelling .
He is the grandson of Jim Parks senior and son of Jim Parks junior .
In 1998 he was named the coach of the France national cricket team .
A substitute can act for the injured or ill player in the field, although he may not bowl, bat, or act as wicket-keeper or as captain, unless otherwise agreed by the captains .
A substitute is permitted to take catches as with any other player, and on some occasions does.
In recent years, there have been arguments made for cricket to allow substitutes in First Class games, as cricket remains unique amongst team sports in not permitting full substitutes for either injuries or tactical reasons.
If he cannot return by the end of the innings, the batting side must close its innings after all other batsmen are dismissed  wickets.
This occasionally happens in friendly or practice matches, for instance English county sides against University Centres of Cricketing Excellence.
Only two batsmen have retired out in an international cricket Test match .
Both instances occurred in the same match, with the Sri Lankan batsmen Marvan Atapattu and Mahela Jayawardene .
Variations of the time periods required and the circumstances of the players return to the field apply in different forms of the game.
Each team was to be allowed one substitute, who had to be named before the toss was made, and could be introduced at any stage of the match.
The NatWest Challenge series between England and Australia in July saw the first use of these new regulations, which did not apply to other forms of cricket such as Test matches .
This change, however, was widely criticised by players, commentators, and fans.
In particular, it was said to give the team that wins the toss an even greater advantage than usual.
In the Ashes test series of 2005, Ricky Ponting complained about what he regarded as the tactical substitution of specialist fielders for weaker bowlers in the English team, which he argued was against the spirit of cricket.
English bowlers were frequently substituted at the end of bowling spells and replaced with fresh fielders.
The English coach argued that these substitutions were either legitimate injuries or players "answering the call of nature".
If the batsman is caught between the two popping creases and the wicket is put down, the batsman is declared out.
".The third umpire may also be called upon if the on-field umpire cannot decide which batsman is out .
An example of this was the Third Test between New Zealand and the West Indies in 2006.
In 2007, Russell was appointed goal-keeping coach for football team Forest Green Rovers who play in the Conference National .
He impressed the national selectors by scoring 50 runs in his Test debut, however it did not cement his place in the national squad as throughout his career he had to compete with another Pakistani wicket-keeper, Moin Khan .
This led to frequent changes of wicket keepers in the next decade.
In 1996, he announced his retirement after conflicts with some players and the team management.
He returned to the Pakistan team and became the captain of the National side in 1998.
Under his leadership, Pakistan successfully experimented with several new players and the team gave positive results.
He was also involved with uniting the players through his captaincy in both on and off the cricket field.
However, problems between Latif and the team management again surfaced in 2003–2004, which resulted in him giving away the captaincy to former Pakistan batsman Inzamam-ul-Haq .
He was omitted from the squad and since then has never been recalled in the team, despite his attempts to get back into the squad during 2003–2005.
Latif has not participated in domestic first class cricket since 2005.
Latif has notably become batting coach of the Afghanistan National Cricket team .

But then Afghanistan's batting order collapsed for 88.
However Asghar Stanikzai scored his second half-century and along with Mohammad Shahzad who scored 37 guided the run chase.
Latif stated that Afghanistan likes to play aggressive cricket and that the players are mentally very tough and hate to lose.
Australia had to field Michael Kasprowicz as replacement, and missed McGrath's superior control and wicket-taking abilities in the match.

Just as Australia's opening batsman walked out and prepared for their innings, the rain began to fall on Edgbaston, and play had to be stopped.
The partnership between Langer and Gilchrist saw them to tea with no further loss, as Langer continued his four-hour unbeaten knock and went into the tea break on 72.
After Trescothick and Strauss had hit five boundaries in six overs and taken the second innings total to 25 for 0,  Ponting brought on Warne in the seventh over, and Warne broke through with his second ball of the innings; his leg break came into the left-hander's stumps and broke them completely, and Strauss was bowled for 6.
Jones managed 12 runs in his 42-minute stay at the crease while Flintoff took Lee for 33 off the 28 balls he faced from the Australian paceman.

Flintoff ended with 73, as the only man to pass 25 for England, before he was bowled by Warne.
Warne finished with figures of six for 46 from 23.1 overs, having bowled unchanged from the seventh over till the end.
Then, Flintoff came and bowled the over of the series.
Including the previous innings, Flintoff had taken four wickets in nine balls.
But more importantly, Australia had been reduced from 47/0 to 48/2.
Warne "took the attacking approach",  and took on Giles for 12 in one over.
England now needed two wickets on the fourth day, while Australia needed 107 runs for the victory.
England's two run victory was the narrowest result in Ashes cricket history thus far .
It is also the second narrowest run victory in all Test cricket history.
When you are done, preview the page to check for errors and then save it.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
He also delivered brutal innings against Australia, and South Africa in the semi-final as well.
McCullum became the first New Zealand captain to lead his team to the World Cup finals, by putting the six semi-final losses in the past.
On 21 May 2015, McCullum started in his 93rd consecutive test, and batting in his preferred spot at no. 5. .
His glovework improved during his tenure as the New Zealand wicketkeeper.
The stint included the entire domestic 2006 Twenty20 Cup.
He can also execute reverse sweep well.
During the Twenty20 World Championship in 2009, the wicketkeeping duties was given to Peter McGlashan .
He was seen practicing his medium bowling.
The 18 teams are divided into two groups of nine.
The other two teams will be faced just once.
The runner-ups from each group will play at home against the third placed team from the other group.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
"sportskeeda"></ref> The umpires consulted with each other and agreed that there was nothing in the rules to prevent it from happening.<ref
In between playing cricket, Rahim studied history at the Jahangirnagar University .Formerly, He finished his school life from Bogra Zilla School Before playing for the senior national team, Rahim played for Bangladesh Under-19s .
He represented them in three Youth Tests and 18 Youth One Day Internationals  between 2004 and 2006, averaging 31.75 and 36.00 with the bat in the respective formats.
His only half-century in the Tests came against England.
Mushfiqur was selected for Bangladesh's tour of England in May and June 2005 .
In what was Bangladesh's first tour of England, the team faced unfamiliar conditions and the batsmen struggled against seam bowling .
The 16-year-old scored 19 in the first innings and was one of just three batsman to reach double figures as Bangladesh were dismissed for 108.
After twisting his ankle, Mushfiqur played no further part in the tour.
Rahim was one of two players at the tournament with Test-match experience.
He scored his maiden half-century at Harare against Zimbabwe and was picked as the first-choice wicket-keeper ahead of Mashud for the World Cup in the West Indies .
Rahim was chosen because his batting was considered better.
He captained the Under-17 side against Somerset U-17s in July 2009, scoring exactly 100.
Cox was called up to make his first-class debut, aged 17, in Worcestershire's penultimate County Championship match of 2009, against Somerset at Taunton .
Worcestershire went on to win the game.
We're so chuffed for him, and obviously for the school.
Let's hope some other boys can follow in his footsteps and reach the high standard he has so far!You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!===T20I===
The following top 10 wicket-keepers for dismissals in Twenty20 International cricket.<ref>{{cite
In the early days of cricket, underarm bowling was the only method employed.
Many theories exist about the origins of cricket.
Rahim as Bangladesh's first choice 'keeper.
Rahim was appointed vice-captain for Bangladesh's tour of Zimbabwe in August 2009 .
Having impressed at home, Rahim's performance in the return tour in England in May was expected to be crucial to how well Bangladesh performed.
Rahim was one of six players in the top level.
Rahim was included in Bangladesh's 15-man squad for the 2011 World Cup.
In April his grade A+ central contract was renewed.
He also missed out the T20 international matches against Sri Lanka in which Mashrafe Mortaza took the job of captaincy.
Hierdie paaltjiewagter hurk naby aan die paaltjies, vir 'n stadige bouler of draaibalbouler.
Spesiale handskoene vir 'n paaltjiewagter.
Die web tussen die duim en wysvinger is aanmekaar gewerk om die duim te beskerm.
Die paaltjiewagter is 'n veldwerkposisie in krieketspel .
Die rol van die paaltjiewagter is in krieketwet nr.
In 1706 William Goldwyn published the first description of the game.
They stated, "the principals shall choose from amongst the gentlemen present two umpires who shall absolutely decide all disputes.
The stumps must be 22 inches high and the bail across them six inches.
There were no limits on the shape or size of the bat.
The world's first cricket club was formed in Hambledon in the 1760s and the Marylebone Cricket Club  was founded in 1787.
During the 1760s and 1770s it became common to pitch the ball through the air, rather than roll it along the ground.
This innovation gave bowlers the weapons of length, deception through the air, plus increased pace.
It also opened new possibilities for spin and swerve.
In response, batters had to master timing and shot selection.
One immediate consequence was the replacement of the curving bat with the straight one.
All of this raised the premium on skill and lessened the influence of rough ground and brute force.
It was in the 1770s that the modern game began to take shape.
In 1774, the first leg before law was published.
The desire for standardisation reflected the massive increase in the popularity of cricket during the 18th century.
Between 1730 and 1740, 150 cricket matches were recorded in the papers of the time.
Between 1750 and 1760, this figure rose to 230, and between 1770 and 1790 over 500.
Wide deliveries were outlawed in 1811.
The circumference of the ball was specified for the first time in 1838 .
Pads, made of cork, became available for the first time in 1841, and these were further developed following the invention of vulcanised rubber, which was also used to introduce protective gloves in 1848.
The biggest change, however, was in how the ball was delivered by the bowler.
At the start of the century, all bowlers were still delivering the ball under-arm.

Underarm bowling hitherto had almost disappeared from the game.
Originally, this definition said that the elbow joint must not straighten out during the bowling action.
Bowlers generally hold their elbows fully extended and rotate the arm vertically about the shoulder joint to impart velocity to the ball, releasing it near the top of the arc.
Biomechanical studies that showed that almost all bowlers extend their elbows somewhat throughout the bowling action, because the stress of swinging the arm around hyperextends the elbow joint.
A guideline was introduced to allow extensions or hyperextensions of angles up to 15 degrees before deeming the ball illegally thrown.
Bowling actions are typically divided into side on and front on actions.
In the side on action, the back foot lands parallel to the bowling crease and the bowler aims at the wicket by looking over his front shoulder.
In the front on action, the back foot lands pointing down the pitch and the bowler aims at the wicket by looking inside the line of his front arm.
The primary means of achieving this is by dismissing the batting side by getting all ten of the opposition wickets as quickly as possible.
A secondary objective will be to keep the batting side's run rate as low as possible.
Dit kom verder daarop neer dat die paaltjiewagter in 'n posisie is om die meeste vangskote van enige veldwerker waar te neem, aangesien hy direk in die vlug van die bal staan  deur die kolwer voor die paaltjies.
Verdere belangrike taak van 'n paaltjiewagter is om, wanneer 'n dryfhou deur die kolwer uitgevoer is, direk by die paaltjies aan sy kant stelling in te neem.
Die paaltjiewagter is ook die enigste veldwerker wat beenskutte dra, alhoewel hulle deesdae korter en ligter is as kolfbeenskutte.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!==
In late 1987, Manjrekar made his international debut, facing the West Indies in Delhi.
He scored five runs in the first innings, and ten in the second, when he retired hurt.
Domestically, he enjoyed success in the 1990–91 season, scoring four centuries and one half-century in eight first-class appearances.
Late-night services  are limited, even on weekends.
A major overhaul of Auckland's bus services is planned to be implemented by 2016, significantly expanding the reach of "frequent" bus services: those that operate at least every 15 minutes during the day and early evening, every day of the week.
Freight usually arrives at or is distributed from the port via road, though the port facilities also have rail access.
Auckland Airport, New Zealand's largest, is in the southern suburb of Mangere on the shores of the Manukau Harbour.
There are frequent services to Australia, and to other New Zealand destinations.
There are also direct connections to many locations in the South Pacific, to the United States, Asia and to Santiago in South America.
Research at Griffith University has indicated that in the last 50 years, Auckland has engaged in some of the most pro-automobile transport policies anywhere in the world.
Conversely, slowing the scoring rate can put additional pressure on the batsmen and force them into taking extra risks, which will often lead to wickets.
Depending upon the format of the match, these two strategies will be given different weights.
In an unlimited, timed or declaration match, the main aim of the bowling attack will be to take wickets, so attacking bowling and fielding strategies will be used.
The simultaneous twin objectives of bowling are to take wickets and prevent run scoring opportunities.
A good length delivery is one in which the ball has had sufficient time to move far enough off the pitch to beat the bat but the batsman has not had time to react to the movement and adjust his shot.
The faster the bowler and the greater the movement he is able to generate, the larger the area of the pitch that can be designated an effective "good" length.
Bowling at the stumps is an attacking tactic with the intention of dismissing the batsman bowled or lbw .
Bowling outside off stump is known as the corridor of uncertainty.
When done well, this line may confuse the batsman into whether to defend the ball or leave it, and may tempt him to play away from his body with his head not in line with the ball.
The main aim of this tactic is to dismiss the batman caught by the wicketkeeper or in the slips .
Other bowling variations, such as bowling wide of off stump or bowling at leg stump are generally seen as negative and defensive tactics.
Some different types of bowling tactic:You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
A six is scored if the batsman hits the ball directly beyond the perimeter of the field.
The 3rd umpire gets access to Instant Replay to make his decision.
The instant replays are also available for the TV/Internet viewers.
However, the live crowd does not get to witness it.
Live crowd will make their decision on the replay shown.
This is regardless of being referred to by on-field umpires.
Use this parameter when you want the name displayed on the top line of the box to be different than the full title of the article about the team; for example, where the article title is qualified to disambiguate between two similarly-named teams.
See {{ Olimpija Ljubljana squad }} for an example of usage.
Find out more about how to get started editing Wikipedia .
An administrator or template editor may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
For more information on the current template system, see Wikipedia:Template namespace .
Look at the source to see how this was done.
Since then, the Pathology article has been rewritten, and does not include all these transclusions.
We can call this rendering here.
The preview of the transclusion rendering will again be identical.
We can call this rendering there.
There are three pairs of tags involved in cases where page rendering here should differ from transclusion rendering there.
As described earlier, these are <noinclude>, <includeonly> and <onlyinclude>.
These tags are invisible, but affect both page rendering here and transclusion rendering there.
These tags pair-off to demarcate sections that will create differences.
Each tag will describe exceptions to transcluding the whole page named.
This section is visible here; but this section is not visible there.
Sections outside of these tags will be visible both here and there.
This section is visible here; this section is also visible there.
Sections outside of these tags will be visible here, but will not be visible there.
This section is not visible here; but it is visible there.
Sections outside of these tags will be visible both here and there.
Numerous arterial roads also provide regional and sub-regional connectivity, with many of these roads  previously used to operate Auckland's former tram network along.
Auckland has three main railway lines  with branch lines to Manukau and Onehunga .
These railway lines serve the general western, southern and central eastern parts of Auckland from the Britomart Transport Centre in downtown Auckland, the terminal station for all lines, where connections are also available to ferry and bus services.
There are plans to connect Britomart with the Western Line near Mt Eden, via an underground rail tunnel known as the City Rail Link project.
Auckland is New Zealand's largest electricity consumer, and uses around 20% of the country's total electricity each year.
Vector, which operates the majority of Auckland's local distribution system, measured maximum demand to be 1722 MW in 2011, with 8679 GWh delivered.
There are two major electricity generation stations located within the city, both of which are natural gas-fired combined cycle gas turbine stations.
Since there is not enough generation in Auckland to meet the demand, and there is very little generation north of Auckland, most of the electricity for Auckland and Northland must be transmitted from power stations in the south, mainly from Huntly Power Station and the Waikato River hydroelectric stations.
Transpower owns the national grid and is responsible for the high voltage transmission lines into and across Auckland.
Five major 220 kV transmission lines connect Auckland with the Waikato, terminating into Otahuhu and Brownhill substations.
The sub-transmission and distribution network in the Auckland region is mostly owned by Vector .
The network south of central Papakura is owned by Counties Power.
There have been several notable power outages in Auckland.
These reduced the Auckland Region's reliance on Otahuhu substation and northern and western Auckland's reliance on the Otahuhu to Henderson line.
A 'Regional Growth Strategy' has been adopted that sees limits on further subdivision and intensification of existing use as its main sustainability measures.
According to the 2006 Census projections, the medium-variant scenario shows that the population is projected to continue growing, to reach 1.93 million by 2031.
The high-variant scenario shows the region's population growing to over two million by 2031.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
To edit this page, please enter the words that appear below in the box :Can't see the image?
Request an account Wikipedia is made by people like you.
This article does not cite any references  .
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
The two concepts are frequently discussed together.
Line controls how much room the batsman has to play various shots, and sometimes dictates what shot he must play.
In this state, the batsman has little choice but to attempt to hit the ball, as not doing so could be disastrous.
Line can also be used strategically to restrict run scoring.
This dangerous tactic has since been outlawed.
See Bodyline for full details.
The Fourth umpire will take over the Third umpire duties if something happens to one of the onfield umpires, as the rules state the third umpire will take over on field duties.
This article is part of WikiProject Cricket which aims to expand and organise information better in articles related to the sport of cricket .
Goalkeeper indicates wiki style to not use the hyphen.
Have flagged it for attention in the assessment template above.
Find out more about how to get started editing Wikipedia .
An administrator may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
An administrator or template editor may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
An administrator may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
The tested changes can then be added to this page in one single edit.
Please consider discussing any changes on the talk page before implementing them.
Get the full root page name of the current or the given page.
This template can be substituted.
Note that wildcards do not work in the namespace, so "User*:Snottywong" won't return edits from "User:Snottywong" and "User talk:Snottywong".
This option has no effect when wildcards are not enabled.
Find out more about how to get started editing Wikipedia .
An administrator may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
A ball pitched too short rises relatively high and loses some of its pace, making it easier to hit.
A ball pitched too long does not have time to deviate horizontally in its flight, also making it easier for the batsman to hit.
For quick bowlers the "good length ball"  it is usually at about three to four metres before the batsman, though the optimal length will vary according to the state of the pitch, prevailing climatic conditions and the height and playing style of the batsman.
If the batsman does not react to the change in length quickly enough, he can be left with his weight on the back foot and, if he misses the ball with his bat, in danger of being out either bowled or leg before wicket .
He did his schooling from Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan and St. Bede's .
Ashwin plays as an all-rounder for Tamil Nadu cricket team and South Zone.
He plays for Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League .
He was the highest wicket taker of the 2010 Champions League Twenty20 tournament for Chennai Super Kings in the tournament with 13 wickets and was adjudged as the player of the tournament.
Ashwin played in all five matches of the home series against New Zealand in November–December 2010.
He played only two matches in the World Cup and made his World Cup debut in March 2011 against the West Indies with bowling figures of 2/41 in 10 overs.
He bowled his full quota in the quarterfinal against Australia at Ahmedabad and picked 2/52.
India went on to win the tournament, but Ashwin did not feature in either the semifinal or the final.
Ashwin was retained in the limited-overs squad for the England tour .
He emerged as India's best bowler of the series, which India lost 3–0, taking six wickets at an average of 25.16.
Ashwin and Ojha were the only two specialist spinners in the squad, with Harbhajan being omitted owing to his indifferent form during the England tour.
Ashwin was ineffective on India's 2011/12 tour of Australia .
He played in three Tests on the tour taking nine wickets at an average of more than 62. Ashwin returned to form during the two-match home Test series against New Zealand.
In the first Test at Hyderabad, he claimed 6/31 and 6/54 helping India seal an innings victory and was named man of the match.
His match figures of 12/85 bettered S. Venkataraghavan 's 12/152 for the best figures by an Indian bowler against New Zealand in Tests.
Opening the batting against New South Wales, Ronchi scored his maiden one-day ton off only 56 deliveries, beating the previous record held by fellow West Australian Adam Voges of 62 deliveries.
When dismissed, he had scored 105 runs from just 64 balls and easily guided Western Australia to an 8-wicket victory over New South Wales .
Ronchi began the 2007–08 season in strong fashion.
Ronchi struck 11 sixes in his innings of 105* with his second fifty coming from just 11 balls.
Ronchi was also recruited by the Mumbai Indians team in 2007, one of the eight Indian Premier League  franchises.
In the final game of the series, he was elevated up the batting order to number three and batted very well to record the equal second fastest fifty by an Australian on his way to scoring 64 from 28 balls, including six sixes and was awarded the player of the match award .
In February 2012, Ronchi announced his intention to return to New Zealand in an attempt to qualify for the national team .
In April 2013, Ronchi was selected by the New Zealand cricket board as part of the limited-overs squad for the New Zealand tour of England the following month.
In January 2015, Ronchi hit an unbeaten 170 off 99 balls against Sri Lanka at University Oval in Dunedin .
Using the book creator After the book creator has been enabled, the box as seen below is shown above each wiki page.
Add this page to your book Adds the currently viewed article  to your book.
On that page, you can change the order of the articles in your book and structure them using chapters.
This tool allows to create books quickly.
This will disable the Book creator and delete your book .
Click on this link, and the linked article will be added to your book.
The Add this page to your book link will have changed into Add this category to your book.
Click on this new link, and all the articles in that category will be added to your book.
Relevant categories may be found at the very bottom of Wikipedia articles.
Categories can also be added by hovering category links.
During the first Test of England's tour of India in late-2012, Ashwin became the fastest Indian to record 50 wickets in Test cricket as he overhauled the milestone in his ninth game.
Among the changes made was shortening Ashwin's bowling stride.
Ashwin on the changes he made to his bowling before the Australia series.
Ashwin was highly successful on Australia's four-Test tour of India in February–March 2013.
His figures of 2/15 in four overs in the 20-overs-a-side final helped India restrict England to 124/8 and win the match by five runs.
In the two-match Test series that followed, Jadeja was preferred over Ashwin as the lone spinner in the playing eleven.
He took nine wickets in four matches of the Asia Cup and finished as the joint-third highest wicket-taker of the tournament.
Ashwin was part of the Indian team that toured England in 2014 .
He played his first match of the Test series only in the fourth game in which he scored 40 and 46 not out but went wicketless in an innings defeat for India.
He took three wickets in the last match, which was another innings defeat.
With India winning the series 3–1, Ashwin took seven wickets from four matches at an average of 24.85 and economy rate of less than 4.5.
Debutant leg-spinner Karn Sharma was chosen over Ashwin for the first Test of India's tour of Australia in December 2014.
He was awarded the Man of the Series.
On course of the series, he became the fastest Indian to reach 150 wickets in Test cricket.
Virender Sehwag captained India after Rahul Dravid was ruled out for rest of the series following an injury.
Gibbs remained unbeaten on 93 while Kallis and Pollock chipped in with 49 and 37 respectively.
Irfan Pathan was the pick of the batsmen scoring 47 runs.
For the Malayalam film, see Not Out  .
Look up not out in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
A batsman's score is often appended with an asterisk to indicate that he was not out; for example, '10*' is read '10 not out'.
At least one batsman will be not out at the end of an innings, because once ten batsmen are out, the eleventh will have no partner to bat on with.
A batsman who retires hurt is considered not out; an uninjured batsman who retires is considered retired out .
This argument is prevailing among cricket statisticians, who have used this method of collecting batting averages since the 18th century.
Laxman is related to India's second President Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan .
Laxman is known for his "wristy, willowy and sinuous" style, one which is technically fluid at its best.
Laxman's on-side playing capability is comparable with his fellow Hyderabadi Mohammed Azharuddin 's.
The Australians once admitted that they did not know where to bowl to him.
At the start of his career, Laxman was rated by Geoffrey Boycott as one of India's best current players of the hard  ball.
But Laxman came into his own only when he was asked to bat in the middle order.
His 281 is rated by many as the best ever innings played by an Indian batsman.
Laxman made his Under-19 debut for India against Australia in February 1994.
Laxman made his first-class debut for Hyderabad against Punjab in the quarter-final match of 1992–93 Ranji Trophy season.
Laxman returned to playing first-class cricket in 1999 to regain his place in the national team.
His performance was rewarded when, in January 2000, he was recalled in the Indian squad for the Australian tour.
Australia's tour of India Laxman's career changed dramatically in the home series against Australia .
He had scores of 69, 69*, 74, 1, 43, 130, 65* and 23 in that series.
But his form dropped during India's tour of New Zealand in 2002/03.
He won the Man of the Series award for his impressive batting performances in the two Test match series.
This was their first Test victory in Australia in two decades.
India went on to post 705/7 in their first innings which is their highest total in Test cricket.
During this series, Ian Chappell described Laxman as Verysupply your username again and demonstrate with the password that you are the same person.
Edits you make are recorded under your username.
If you are not logged in your edits are recorded under your IP address .
You don't have to log in to read any public MediaWiki wiki.
You don't even have to log in to edit, normally: anyone can edit almost any page, even without logging in.
You will be able to mark an edit as minor, which avoids inconvenience for other users.
You don't have to give your email address if you don't want to.
But if you choose to give an email address, you will be able to do the following:reset your password if you forget it,receive automatic notifications of certain events, if set in your preferences,receive emails from other users if so set in your preferences ,send an email to other users if they want as above .
How to log in First, make sure that your browser accepts cookies .
Some browsers can accept or reject cookies from individual sites; users of these should configure the browser to accept cookies from each wiki you plan to edit, such as wikipedia.org.
You will then be prompted to enter your username and password.
If you haven't logged in before, you will need to use the link provided to create an account.
You may give your email address if you like.
If you click the box "Keep me logged in", you will not have to give your password again when you access that MediaWiki wiki from the same computer.
This feature will only work if your password was not generated by the Mediawiki software.
Also make sure your computer's date and time are set correctly; if they are not, cookies may expire before they are supposed to.
Regardless of the reason for the logout, the simplest solution to the problem is to check the "Keep me logged in" box.
Users with text, speech, or certain old browsers will be unable to create an account if they can not view this image.
If you are unable to view captchas, contact an administrator .
You may also be unable to create an account if it contains certain symbols  or words, or if it is too similar to that of an existing user.
You may then be able to request that an account is created for you by contacting an administrator, depending on the wiki's own policies and systems.
If your IP address has account creation blocked, you may be able either to request to be unblocked or to request an account.
You can log out any time by clicking on the "Log out" link at the top right of the page.
To prevent the browser from remembering your username and suggesting it to the next user of the computer, remember to delete the wiki's cookies in your browser's privacy settings.
To edit this page, please enter the words that appear below in the box :Can't see the image?
Request an account Wikipedia is made by people like you.
Attention: The data for authorship is loading.
The page does not need to be reloaded.
The data will automatically appear.
Attention: The data for authorship is from older article revision.
A refresh is recommended but may take time depending on the size of the article.
The data will automatically be updated as soon as they are available.
It will add the page to an optional additional category.
Usually the "date" parameter of the calling template Parameter 4: Category all the articles go in, dated or not .
As the game progressed towards professionals and became more serious, pitchers began to attempt to prevent the batter from hitting the ball by throwing faster pitches.
The rising velocity of pitches in conjunction with catchers moving closer to home plate significantly increased the risk of injuries for catchers, especially face and hand injuries.
By the late 1870s, catchers began to use padded, fingerless gloves to protect their hands, and in 1877 the first protective catcher's mask was used.
Conversely, some umpires will call low pitches strikes even when they are slightly below the knees.
Other umpires have an inside bias or an outside bias; some umpires have more than one bias; some are uniformly lenient; some have very restricted notions of the strike zone, and the pitcher will constantly feel that his pitches are unfairly judged.
The catcher can exploit an umpire's tendencies by taking him into account in how he chooses to receive the ball.
A variation on "framing" is called "pulling pitches".
The general approach is to catch the half of the ball that is outside the strike zone and show the umpire only the half of the ball, lodged in the mitt, that is closer to the zone.
Calling the game Calling the game refers to the act of catchers to decide the type of pitch delivered to home plate.
The responsibility for selecting the type of pitch was traditionally made by the catcher.
A catcher nearly always throws with his right hand.
Consequently, players who are left-handed rarely play catcher.
Once in position, he drops to his knees, places his mitt between his legs to prevent the ball from passing through, and leans forward to deaden the rebound when, and if, the ball bounces off his thigh or torso.
Ideally, the catcher will be able to knock the ball to the ground where it will stop within arm's reach.
To perform this properly, without the ball being deflected in an undesirable direction, the catcher must angle his body so that his chest is always leaning forward, toward home plate.
This maneuver is often difficult, and its difficulty depends largely on how fast the ball is traveling, where it first hits the ground, the firmness of the ground it hits, and the manner in which it is spinning.
The defensive plays expected of catchers, aside from managing the pitcher by calling for pitches and catching them, include:Preventing wild pitches and avoiding passed balls .
Hat-tricks are rare, and as such are treasured by bowlers.
In 1912, Australian Jimmy Matthews achieved the feat twice in one game against South Africa .
He is the only bowler to take three hat-tricks in any form of international cricket.
Albert Trott and Joginder Rao are the only two bowlers credited with two hat-tricks in the same innings in first class cricket.
Some hat-tricks are particularly extraordinary.
This event is believed to be unique in first-class cricket.
Power House scored 361 putting the game out of reach of Gunbower.
In the second innings opener Taylor was joined by Higgins at the fall of the fourth wicket as Hickman returned to the attack.
It consisted of five wickets in five balls, across two innings and separated by seven days, as the match took place on consecutive Saturdays.
A hat trick, as it is known in its current form, culminates with fans throwing hats onto the ice from the stands.
The tradition is said to have begun among fans in the National Hockey League around the 1950s.
There are several conflicting legends of how the "hat trick" was popularized in professional hockey.
That night, on 26 January 1946, Kaleta scored four goals against the Maple Leafs and Taft made good on his offer.
The more traditional practice of fans throwing hats on the ice following genuine hat tricks remains exempt from this penalty.
Early life and career Kieswetter was born in Johannesburg to an Afrikaner father, Wayne, and Scottish mother, Belinda.
Following his strong performances for Somerset, Kieswetter was part of the England Performance Programme squad that spent eight weeks of the English winter training in Loughborough and Pretoria .
Governance of the states is divided between the federal and the state governments, with different powers reserved for each, and the Federal government has direct administration of the federal territories.
It has land borders with Thailand in West Malaysia, and Indonesia and Brunei in East Malaysia.
Malaysia is the only sovereign Austronesian -speaking nation with territory on the Asian mainland.
Some species of Rafflesia can grow up to 1 m  in diameter, making them the largest flowers in the world.
Nearly 4,000 species of fungi, including lichen-forming species have been recorded from Malaysia.
Without doubt, many more fungal species in Malaysia have not yet been recorded, and it is likely that many of those, when found, will be new to science.
About two thirds of Malaysia is covered in forest, Main article: Environmental issues in Malaysia Logging, along with cultivation practices has devastated tree cover, causing severe environmental degradation in the country.
Over 80 per cent of Sarawak's rainforest has been cleared.
The Malaysian government aims to balance economic growth with environmental protection, but has been accused of favouring big business over the environment.
Malaysia is the only country in Southeast Asia which manufactures indigenously designed automobiles.
Malaysian life expectancy, relatively high level of schooling, and above average fertility rate will help in its rapid expansion".
The Petronas Towers house the headquarters of the national oil company Petronas and are the tallest twin-towers in the world.
In an effort to diversify the economy and make it less dependent on export goods, the government has pushed to increase tourism to Malaysia .
Science policies in Malaysia are regulated by the Ministry of Science, Technology, and Innovation.
The country is one of the world's largest exporters of semiconductor devices, electrical devices, and IT and communication products.
There two commuter rail services linking Kuala Lumpur with the Kuala Lumpur International Airport .
The railway network covers most of the 11 states in Peninsular Malaysia .
In East Malaysia, only the state of Sabah has railways.
The network is also connected to the Thai railway 1,000 mm (3 ft 3 3⁄ in) network in the north.
If the Burma Railway is rebuilt, services to Myanmar, India, and China could be initiated.
Malaysia has 118 airports, of which 38 are paved.
Kuala Lumpur International Airport is the main and busiest airport of Malaysia.
First, tariffs are low, thus making cost recovery impossible at current levels so that the sector continues to depend on government subsidies.
Second, water losses as well as per capita water use remain high despite efforts at water demand management.
Fourth, the development of sewerage and wastewater treatment has lagged behind the development of water infrastructure.
For example, much of the collected wastewater is not yet being treated.
The sanitation sub-sector has been excluded in the 2006 reforms of the water supply sub-sector.
Main article: Demographics of Malaysia The percentage distribution of Malaysian population by ethnic group based on 2010 census.
Kieswetter batting against Worcestershire in 2010.
Kieswetter began the 2011 season strongly for Somerset, scoring 308 runs in his first four one-day matches, including two centuries.
The competition between Kieswetter and Buttler for England's one-day wicket-keeping role also caused conflict at Somerset for the 2013 season: both players wanted to fulfil the role for the county.
The injuries were initially described by Somerset's chairman, Andy Nash, as "serious but non-career threatening".
He played all ten matches for the Warriors, scoring 199 runs at an average of 22.11, including two half-centuries.
On 10 December 2014, despite having been named in England's 30-man provisional 2015 Cricket World Cup squad, Kieswetter revealed that he was still suffering vision problems.
He announced that he would not play in the 2015 season and would seek further treatment.
Somerset experimented with Kieswetter throughout the order, trying to find the most effective place for him.
"801 for 8" is cricket notation which could also be written 801/8, and signifies that the batting team has scored 801 runs, and has lost eight of its ten wickets.
See Scoring  for more information.
The scorecard is colloquially known as The Book.
Using the book, the scorer fills out two main sections per ball, the bowling analysis and the batting analysis.
Each section helps track the number of balls bowled in an over, any extras .
At the end of each over, the scorer may fill out an over analysis with the score at the end of the over, the number of wickets that have fallen, any penalties incurred and the number of the bowler in the analysis.
This gives additional charts tracking bowling placement and shot selection which can then be used at the coaching level.
It has been known for scorers to use both methods in conjunction with one another, in case the computer goes down or runs out of battery.
Addition to computer software, mobile applications are being used lately.
Most of the amateur tournaments use mobile apps on their smartphones because they are more convenient and free, which makes it perfect fit for amateur cricketers since they cannot afford to spend money on standalone and custom software.
One of the widely used cricket scoring app is Chauka .
Referring to scores The scoreboard at the Adelaide Oval .
An exampted items need to go somewhere else.
In either case the article will be added to Category:All articles to be split .
Category:Dutch mathematicians .
If it doesn't the page will be added to the hidden Category:Articles with tags with unsupported types .
An incorrect date is any date which is not of the form November 2015, e.g.
The template and its use do not imply any statement, endorsement or otherwise of the code of English used in the tagged article.
Please refer to the author if there is disagreement about words included in the dictionary.
Please go back to the article and edit it directly, or go back to the article and use the "Discussion" tab at the top of the page to find an appropriate place to discuss it or to request help.
See Help:Footnotes for more details on how to edit references in articles using this template.
An administrator or template editor may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
Submit an edit request You can view and copy the source of this page:<nowiki/><!--This
An administrator may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
Also, to stop receiving these messages, follow these opt-out instructions .
It really isn't enough just to create an unreferenced article that merely asserts that something is "very famous".
AllyD I've just tagged three more newly created articles because they don't have one single reference between them; not one.
AllyD This is an automated message from MadmanBot .
It is possible that the bot is confused and found similarity where none actually exists.
If that is the case, you can remove the tag from the article.
The article will be reviewed to determine if there are any copyright issues.
For legal reasons, we cannot accept copyrighted text or images borrowed from other web sites or printed material.
Whitetararaj, you must not copy material into Wikipedia.
It could cause serious legal problems.
You have been warned about this before: if you do it again, you may be blocked from editing .
JohnCD The article Paippad Puthenkavu Bhagavathi Temple has been proposed for deletion because of the following concern:non notable temple.
It is also unreferenced.
While all contributions to Wikipedia are appreciated, content or articles may be deleted for any of several reasons .
You may prevent the proposed deletion by removing the notice, but please explain why in your edit summary or on the article's talk page .
Please consider improving the article to address the issues raised.
In particular, the speedy deletion process can result in deletion without discussion, and articles for deletion allows discussion to reach consensus for deletion.
Starship9000 Proposed deletion of Shivaji Guruvayoor The article Shivaji Guruvayoor has been proposed for deletion because it appears to have no references.
If you created the article, please don't be offended.
Instead, consider improving the article.
Please do not remove the tag unless the article is sourced.
Thank you for your recent edits.
Wikipedia appreciates your help.
It's OK to remove this message.
Also, to stop receiving these messages, follow these opt-out instructions .
You may want to consider using the Article Wizard to help you create articles.
A tag has been placed on Lazza Ice Cream Factory, Panamattom requesting that it be speedily deleted from Wikipedia.
Please see the guidelines for what is generally accepted as notable .
If you think that the page was nominated in error, contest the nomination by clicking on the button labelled "Click here to contest this speedy deletion" in the speedy deletion tag.
Doing so will take you to the talk page where you can explain why you believe the page should not be deleted.
Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag yourself, but do not hesitate to add information that is consistent with Wikipedia's policies and guidelines .
While all contributions to Wikipedia are appreciated, content or articles may be deleted for any of several reasons .
You may prevent the proposed deletion by removing the notice, but please explain why in your edit summary or on the article's talk page .
Please consider improving the article to address the issues raised.
In particular, the speedy deletion process can result in deletion without discussion, and articles for deletion allows discussion to reach consensus for deletion.
AllyD The article Pisharikavu Temple has been proposed for deletion because of the following concern:Unreferenced article with no evidence that the subject is notable .
While all contributions to Wikipedia are appreciated, content or articles may be deleted for any of several reasons .
You may prevent the proposed deletion by removing the notice, but please explain why in your edit summary or on the article's talk page .
Please consider improving the article to address the issues raised.
In particular, the speedy deletion process can result in deletion without discussion, and articles for deletion allows discussion to reach consensus for deletion.
It might not have been your intention, but your recent edit removed maintenance templates from Viyyoor Shiva Temple .
Please don't re-add it.
You may want to consider using the Article Wizard to help you create articles.
Please see Wikipedia:Stub for our minimum information standards for short articles.
Also please note that articles must be on notable subjects and should provide references to reliable sources that verify their content.
If you think that the page was nominated in error, contest the nomination by clicking on the button labelled "Click here to contest this speedy deletion" in the speedy deletion tag.
Doing so will take you to the talk page where you can explain why you believe the page should not be deleted.
Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag yourself, but do not hesitate to add information that is consistent with Wikipedia's policies and guidelines .
If you created the article, please don't be offended.
Instead, consider improving the article.
Please do not remove the tag unless the article is sourced.
Although the deletion proposal may be incorrect, removing the tag is not the correct way for you to contest the deletion, even if you are more experienced than the nominator.
Instead, please use the talk page to explain why the page should not be deleted.
Remember to be patient, there is no harm in waiting for another experienced user to review the deletion and judge what the right course of action is.
As you are involved, and therefore potentially biased, you should refrain from doing this yourself.
You may want to consider using the Article Wizard to help you create articles.
Please see Wikipedia:Stub for our minimum information standards for short articles.
Also please note that articles must be on notable subjects and should provide references to reliable sources that verify their content.
If you think that the page was nominated in error, contest the nomination by clicking on the button labelled "Click here to contest this speedy deletion" in the speedy deletion tag.
Doing so will take you to the talk page where you can explain why you believe the page should not be deleted.
Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag yourself, but do not hesitate to add information that is consistent with Wikipedia's policies and guidelines .
While all contributions to Wikipedia are appreciated, content or articles may be deleted for any of several reasons .
You may prevent the proposed deletion by removing the notice, but please explain why in your edit summary or on the article's talk page .
Please consider improving the article to address the issues raised.
In particular, the speedy deletion process can result in deletion without discussion, and articles for deletion allows discussion to reach consensus for deletion.
The nomination will explain the policies and guidelines which are of concern.
The discussion focuses on high-quality evidence and our policies and guidelines.
Users may edit the article during the discussion, including to improve the article to address concerns raised in the discussion.
However, do not remove the article-for-deletion template from the top of the article.
Adding material in the way you are doing harms Wikipedia.

For films, this is not enough to establish notability,and unless someone goes to the trouble of finding proper information such as reviews, the articles will be removed.
The tested changes can then be added to this page in one single edit.
Please consider discussing any changes on the talk page before implementing them.
This module is subject to page protection .
It is used in Module:Navbox .
Ishant and Prasad faced off during the final session of the fourth day when Ishant, after being bounced several times by Prasad, smacked his helmet repeatedly while running down the pitch, as if asking the bowler to aim at his head.
Chandimal walked over from slip, his shoulder brushing Ishant's, and exchanged words with the batsman.
These two incidents were the flash points of an ill-tempered passage of play that involved several stares and words being exchanged between Ishant and Sri Lanka's players.
There was further tension when Ishant gave Upul Tharanga an angry send-off and then went on to celebrate Chandimal's dismissal by striking the side of his own head repeatedly.
Ishant had been docked 65% of his match fee at the end of the second Test for send-offs to Thirimanne and Chandimal.
Thirimanne, too, was fined 30% of his match fee for showing dissent at the umpire's decision during the second Test.
He was noted for his swing and his battles against Ricky Ponting .
Test Debut for India He made his Test debut against West Indies cricket team at Kingston in June 2011.
Due to injuries and the subsequent rise of Bhuvneshwar Kumar as the opening swing bowler he has been in and out of the team ever since.
He has also allegedly been controversially involved in various brawls on and off the field, In the Indian Premier League he played for Kings XI Punjab from 2011 to 2013.
The oldest proto-human bones discovered in England date from 500,000 years ago.
As the seas rose, it was separated from Ireland 10,000 years ago and from Eurasia two millennia later.
The Beaker culture arrived around 2,500 BC, introducing drinking and food vessels constructed from clay, as well as vessels used as reduction pots to smelt copper ores.
Brythonic was the spoken language during this time.
Society was tribal; according to Ptolemy 's Geographia there were around 20 tribes in the area.
Earlier divisions are unknown because the Britons were not literate.
Like other regions on the edge of the Empire, Britain had long enjoyed trading links with the Romans.
There is debate about when Christianity was first introduced; it was no later than the 4th century, probably much earlier.
Celtic Christian monastic and missionary movements flourished: Patrick .
Disputes between the Roman- and Celtic-dominated forms of Christianity ended in victory for the Roman tradition at the Council of Whitby .
Over the following centuries this process of political consolidation continued.
In the early 9th century Mercia was displaced as the foremost kingdom by Wessex.
Later in that century escalating attacks by the Danes culminated in the conquest of the north and east of England, overthrowing the kingdoms of Northumbria, Mercia and East Anglia.
Wessex under Alfred the Great was left as the only surviving English kingdom, and under his successors it steadily expanded at the expense of the kingdoms of the Danelaw .
This brought about the political unification of England, first accomplished under Æthelstan in 927 and definitively established after further conflicts by Eadred in 953.
However the native royal dynasty was restored with the accession of Edward the Confessor in 1042.
A dispute over the succession to Edward led to the Norman conquest of England in 1066, accomplished by an army led by Duke William of Normandy .
Lordship of Ireland was given to the English monarchy by the Pope.
During the 14th century, the Plantagenets and the House of Valois both claimed to be legitimate claimants to the House of Capet and with it France; the two powers clashed in the Hundred Years' War .
In contrast with much of European Protestantism, the roots of the split were more political than theological.
He also legally incorporated his ancestral land Wales into the Kingdom of England with the 1535–1542 acts .
The former took the country back to Catholicism while the latter broke from it again, forcefully asserting the supremacy of Anglicanism .
The Roanoke colony failed and is known as the lost colony, after it was found abandoned on the return of the late-arriving supply ship.
It has not only been ranked with Shakespeare 's works as the greatest masterpiece of literature in the English language but also was the standard version of the Bible read by most Protestant Christians for four hundred years, until modern revisions were produced in the 20th century.
The English Restoration restored the monarchy under King Charles II and peace after the English Civil War .
With the founding of the Royal Society in 1660, science was greatly encouraged.
Under the newly formed Kingdom of Great Britain, output from the Royal Society and other English initiatives combined with the Scottish Enlightenment to create innovations in science and engineering, while the enormous growth in British overseas trade protected by the Royal Navy paved the way for the establishment of the British Empire .
Usually, the bowler decides what type of delivery to bowl next, without consultation or even informing any other member of his team.
Another piece of information important for the bowlers to consider prior to their deliveries is the state of pitch.
Their win/loss record is 3/9.
Jiwanjot made his FC debut during Ranji Trophy 2012/13 against Hyderabad in November 2012 and scored 213.
He finished the season with 995 runs from 10 matches with five hundreds and two fifties at an average of 66.33.
Kohli's good form continued throughout the tournament, as he top-scored with 110 in the penultimate match.
Taruwar Kohli was the member of the Indian u-19 Team, which became world cup winners in 2008.
He was the man of the match in the semifinal against London in the U-19 World Cup.
Before the world cup, he captained the Punjab U-19 team which won the one day tournament.
He scored 79 in his Ranji Trophy debut in 2008/09 session and 58 in his one day debut.
He was captain of Punjab U-22 team in 2010/11 season.
He played all the matches for Punjab in the Vijay Hazare Cricket One Day Cricket as an All Rounder.
He is fast pace bowler.
Indian Oil.
Mohali XI in the Finals, won the tournament.
He played one Ranji match in 2011-2012 played T-20 matches from Punjab 2011-12.
Bowling 4/28/1 against Haryana.
Bowling 4/24 against Delhi.
Bowling 3/15 against Himachal Pradesh.
He played in the Vinoo Mankad Trophy for the Under-19s team in 2006, and in the Cooch Behar Trophy competition of the same year.
Against J&K he scored 31 runs in 26 balls with two sixers.
Against Himachal Pradesh he scored 31 runs in 30 balls with two sixes.
He also took one catch.
He scored 46 runs and played 86 runs partnership with Harbhajan Singh and won the match against Maharashtra.
He will now play against Hyedrabad on 7th of march at delhi in Quarter-Finals.
Decline of form However, Laxman's form was on the decline since the series against Australia.
In November 2006, he was selected in the test squad for India's tour of South Africa.
He passed the 5000 run landmark in the first day of the final test.
After the tests he joined Lancashire as their overseas player in place of Brad Hodge .
He played in five games of the county championship and showed glimpses of his sublime batting.
They just missed out by 25 runs and subsequently lost the Championship to Sussex.
This ensured his place on the tour of Australia which would be his third to that country.
Sublime form from end of 2007 till May 2011Laxman's good form continued in the 2007/08 Test series against Australia with him scoring 109 against Australia on the second day of the controversial Sydney Test to put India back into the contest.
It was his 12th hundred in Test matches, and his 5th against Australia.
He hit 51 in the first innings of the final Test at Adelaide.
He finished as the second highest run-getter for India in that series, only behind Sachin Tendulkar .
He, like all other Indian batsmen, struggled in Sri Lanka against the spin duo of Muttiah Muralitharan and Ajantha Mendis later in July–August that year.
Laxman was dismissed by Mendis on all five occasions in that series.
He also crossed the 6000-run milestone during the series.
During the third Test at the Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi, Laxman scored an unbeaten 200 in the first innings with characteristic use of his wrists and flicks through the leg side.
In the same innings, Gautam Gambhir scored 206, Laxman and Gambhir becoming the first pair of batsmen to score double-centuries in the same innings for India, and the first to do so against Australia.
This was his second double-century in Test cricket with the previous one coming against the same opponents.
He made an unbeaten 59 in the second innings and was named Man of the Match.
The match was also the last game of India's spin wizard Anil Kumble who was also the captain of the team.
He was forced to miss the limited-overs part of the England tour and the subsequent one-day series against the same opponents in India, but recovered in time to play against West Indies.
"There is no risk about it ," Ishant told reporters after India's practice session on Sunday.
Being the senior-most bowler in the team, it's really great.
It's difficult to express this kind of feeling actually.
Richardson reveals the world class batsman’s dilemma while facing fast bowlers, stating that the time between the batsmen’s anticipation of the trajectory of the ball and positioning themselves for the appropriate shot can be twice as long as the interval between the bowl leaving the bowler’s hand and reaching the batsman’s crease.
Side by side, Richardson alludes to the research undertaken by Dr. Sean Müller in Australia which was partly funded by Cricket Australia 's Centre of Excellence .
The results of the research demonstrated the importance of anticipation of the delivery for batsmen in cricket.
This foresight that batsmen utilize while on the crease is referred to as ‘advance information’ by Richardson.
Moreover, Müller’s research outlined that the presence of this ‘advance information’ was not as evident among the lesser skilled batsmen in comparison to the experienced ones.
The controversy linked to Muralitharan’s delivery emerged in 1995, when the umpire of the test match between Sri Lanka and Australia deemed Muralitharan’s delivery as illegal on the suspicion that he was throwing the ball.
Selvey acknowledges this as the factor sparking an ‘international cricket incident,’ with critics and some extremists going as far as insisting on the exclusion of all of the Sri Lankan’s accomplishments throughout his career from the records of cricket.
However, Suresh Menon takes an adamant stance on the topic of the controversy surrounding the spinner by displaying appreciation for Muralitharan’s actions.
Menon suggests that investigation into Muralitharan’s deliveries led to the revelation of imperfections present in the bowling action and deliveries of the previously considered ‘picture-perfect’ fast bowler, Glenn McGrath .
This was made possible with the usage of technology and its replacement of the earlier system, which Menon refers to as ‘the naked eye.’
Eventually, it was declared legal for the bowlers to bend their arm fifteen degrees for deliveries in cricket.
The Media Centre was commissioned in time for the 1999 Cricket World Cup and was the first all aluminium, semi-monocoque building in the world.
It was built and fitted-out in two boatyards and uses boat-building technology.
The centre stands 15 metres  above the ground and its sole support comes from the structure around its two lift shafts— it is approximately the same height as the Pavilion directly opposite it on the other side of the ground.
The lower tier of the centre provides accommodation for over 100 journalists and the top tier has radio and television commentary boxes.
The pub no longer exists, and the Tavern Stand now stands on its former site.
For more details on this topic, see Lord's Slope .
The famous Old Father Time weather vane and clock is also visible One of the most distinctive and famous features of the Lord's ground is the significant slope across the field.
The north-west side of the playing surface is 2.5 metres  higher than the south-east side.
This slope causes appreciable deviation in bounce of the ball on the pitch, making it easier to move the ball in to right-handed batsmen when bowling from the Pavilion End, and easier to move it away when bowling from the Nursery End.
The outfield was notorious for becoming waterlogged, resulting in considerable reduction of loss of play due to rainfall, until clay soil was relaid with sand during the winter of 2002–2003.
For more details on this topic, see Grace Gates .
One of the features of the ground is the pair of ornamental gates, named in honour of W. G. Grace .
In 1923, the W. G. Grace Memorial Gates were erected at the St John's Wood Road entrance to the ground.
Twenty20 match at Lord's: Middlesex vs Kent, 27 May 2009Temporary floodlights were installed at the ground in 2007 but were removed in 2008 after complaints of light pollution from residents of St. John's Wood.
In January 2009, the Westminster Council approved use of new retractable  floodlights designed to minimize light spillage into nearby homes.
The lights must be dimmed to half-strength at 9.50 pm and be switched off by 11 pm.
The Captain of the side winning the toss chooses to either bat or bowl  first.
The innings lasts until the batting side is "all out"  or all of the first side's allotted overs are completed.
The team batting second tries to score more than the target score in order to win the match.
Similarly, the side bowling second tries to bowl out the second team or make them exhaust their overs before they reach the target score in order to win.
Fielding restrictions dictate the maximum number of fieldsmen allowed to be outside the thirty-yard circle.
Between 11 to 40 overs four fielders will be allowed outside to field the 30-yard circle.
In final 10 overs five fielders will be allowed to field outside the 30-yard circle.
Fielding restrictions were first introduced in the Australian 1980-81 season.
Over the six months it was in operation, it became very clear that the Supersub was of far more benefit to the side that won the toss, unbalancing the game.
Several international captains reached "gentleman's agreements" to discontinue this rule late in 2005.
Kaul was named in the squad for the India U-19s team for the 2008 Under-19 World Cup in Malaysia .
He played in all of India's matches as they proceeded to the final, where they defeated the South African U-19 cricket team by 12 runs .
The batsman can be judged run out when he is closest to the end where the wicket has been put down by the opposition and no other batsman is available inside the crease of the same end.
The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
Where this has happened, the bowler may attempt to run the non-striking batsman out.
By convention, the bowler is meant to warn the batsman to stay in his crease rather than to take his wicket.
The most famous example of this method of dismissal involved the Indian bowler Vinoo Mankad .
It occurred during India's tour of Australia on 13 December 1947 in the second Test at Sydney .
Mankad ran out Bill Brown when, in the act of delivering the ball, he held on to it and removed the bails with Brown well out of his crease.
This was the second time Mankad had dismissed Brown in this fashion on the tour, having already done it in an earlier match against an Australian XI.
On that occasion he had warned Brown once before running him out.
".The most recent incident about Mankading is England batsman Jos Buttler being dismissed by Sri Lankan bowler Sachithra Senanayake in 2014 in England .
Whether the attempt is successful or not, the ball shall not count as one of the over.
If the bowler fails in an attempt to run out the non-striker, the umpire shall call and signal dead ball as soon as possible."The

As the bowler's back foot lands, the non-striker can move down the pitch without risk of run out.
Thus amateur cricketers may not copy the professionals in detail on this: what is Out in professional cricket  is definitely Not Out in amateur cricket.
In some formats of indoor cricket "Mankading" is still permitted.
When this happens the batsman is actually given out "Mankad" rather than "run out.
".Instances of Mankading in Test cricket To edit this page, please enter the words that appear below in the box :Can't see the image?
Request an account Wikipedia is made by people like you.
Charles played his first twenty20 match in January 2008, representing Saint Lucia in the Stanford Twenty20 .
Having been selected in the West Indies squad for the 2012 Twenty20, Charles opened the bat with Chris Gayle in the third match  went on to score 84 to help his team to victory against England.
It was his highest score in first-class, List A, or even twenty20 cricket.
This article needs additional citations for verification .
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Being caught out is the most common method of dismissal at higher levels of competition.
The batsman does not hit the ball with his bat or the gloved hand holding the bat.
The ball does not remain under the control of the fielder.
A fielder taking the catch makes contact with the boundary rope or the area outside the boundary.
If the catch taken is pronounced or obvious, the players need not appeal to the umpire; the batsman normally chooses to acknowledge the dismissal himself.
In the very strictest sense, this meant that the player did not finish catching the ball until he threw it away, though the player doesn't have to throw the ball to anyone in particular in so doing.
Australia went on to win the tournament.
Gilchrist was named man of the match in two of the games.
Australia's streak looked in danger during the First Test in Mumbai when they fell to 5/99 in reply to India's 171 when Gilchrist came to the crease.
The allowed Australia to reach 576 in only 545 minutes, and set up an innings victory that set the tone for the series.
Gilchrist captained the team in the Fourth Test at Headingley after an injury to Steve Waugh.
Gilchrist warmed up for the World Cup in South Africa by scoring 310 runs at 44.28 in the triangular tournament in Australia against England and Sri Lanka.
His performances over the past year were recognised with the Allan Border Medal .
Gilchrist returned to form when New Zealand toured Australia at the start of southern hemisphere season.
Gilchrist fell four times to man of the series Andrew Flintoff .
The purple patch ended on the tour of South Africa and then Bangladesh.
As wicket-keeper, however, he took four catches, equalling the most dismissals in one match in the tournament and bringing his total for the tournament to 14, second behind Sri Lanka's Kumar Sangakkara .
Gilchrist opened the batting against Sri Lanka in the final.
He scored 169 runs at 33.80 as Australia were knocked out by India in the semifinals.
On 26 January 2008 during the 4th and final Test of the 2007–08 series against India, Gilchrist announced that he would retire from international cricket at the end of the season.
Gilchrist was contracted by the Hyderabad-based Deccan Chargers in the inaugural season's player auction for US$700,000.
Deccan came last, winning only two of 14 matches.
In the second season, Gilchrist was installed as captain in place of Laxman by new coach and former Australian teammate Darren Lehmann .
The team started well and won their first four matches but stumbled and won only three of their remaining ten qualifying matches.
They qualified fourth into the semifinals and Gilchrist led the team to the final by striking 85 off just 35 balls against the Delhi Daredevils .
Gilchrist was named the Player of The Tournament. .In the fourth season, Gilchrist was contracted by Kings XI Punjab for US$900,000.
He was chosen the captain for the team as Kumar Sangakkara  had moved to Deccan Chargers.
He stated the reason as being the Kings XI management's decision to renew his contract for another season.
He was appointed interim captain on 11 June upon the sudden resignation of Shaun Udal .
Style of play Gilchrist standing up to Shane Warne in 2005.
Andrew Strauss is the batsman.
However, while perhaps not as elegant as some, he has successfully kept wicket for spin bowler Shane Warne and fast bowlers Glenn McGrath and Brett Lee for most of his international career.
Gilchrist reignited this debate parcel of the game.
You have to play the role of the senior when someone is injured.
Whoever you have in the team, you need to go ahead and give your best shot."Given
India can't produce fast bowlers.
Now all the three fast bowlers are consistently clocking 90 miles per hour.
"The only thing you can do is to be consistent and bowl in the right areas.
As the day progresses, you get reverse-swing.
Australia tour is after this series.
We will get two practice matches there to get accustomed to the conditions.
In India, the wickets are like this only.
We can't complain about this."This page provides assistance with the most common questions about Wikipedia.
Or browse the Help menu or the Help directory .
Just type what you are looking for in there and then press .
See Help:Searching for more details.
There are other ways to browse and explore Wikipedia articles; many can be found at Portal:Contents .
Also see our disclaimer for cautions about Wikipedia's limitations.
Or play the Wikipedia Adventure to learn to edit in an hour.
The Cheatsheet can remind you of basic wiki markup.
Be bold in improving articles!
When adding facts, please provide references so others may verify them.
If you are affiliated with the article subject, please see our conflict of interest guideline .
If you're looking for places you can help out, the community portal is the place to go.
See the "I want to edit an article" section of this page for more information.
This will bring the matter to the attention of others who work on that article.
Alternatively you can contact us .
Once you have created an article, see Writing better articles for guidance on how to improve it and what to include .
For contributing images, audio or video files, see the Introduction to uploading images .
Then the Upload wizard will guide you through that process.
Volunteers there will attempt to answer your questions on any topic, or point you towards the information you need.
Yogesh Nagar  is an Indian cricketer .
He plays for the Delhi Ranji Trophy side and the Delhi under-16 side.
He plays for the Delhi Daredevils in the Indian Premier League .
Early life and Domestic career Dale Steyn grew up in the small town of Phalaborwa on the border of the world-famous wildlife haven, the Kruger National Park .
Active and energetic, Steyn was naturally drawn to sports.
His love of being outdoors led him also to more solitary activities such as bass fishing and skateboarding.
He went back to playing for the Titans after failing to impress in his first three Tests.
This time around he had more success, claiming 23 County Championship wickets in seven matches at an average of 25.86.
Dale Steyn signed to play in the Indian Premier League in 2008, playing for the Royal Challengers Bangalore .
He earned US$325,000 for his appearance in the tournament.
England won the match by 77 runs.
Later that year, Steyn was picked in the squad for the African XI in the Afro-Asia Cup of 2005/06, and he made his One Day International debut on 17 August 2005.
The African XI won the match, with Steyn bowling last batsman Ashish Nehra to seal victory by two runs.
South Africa slumped to defeat by an innings and 153 runs.
He picked up an injury whilst bowling early in India's first innings in the first Test at Johannesburg which prevented him from taking much further part in the game and also ruled him out of the second Test.
He returned to play in the deciding third Test at Cape Town and bowled well, taking six wickets for 88 runs in the match as South Africa clinched the match and the series.
He had mixed success in these three matches, taking wickets but proving expensive.
Steyn was picked for the Test squad to tour Pakistan in October, and played in both Tests.
Steyn was also awarded his first Test Man-of-the-Match award.
He made his Twenty20 International debut on 23 November 2007 in the one-off game against New Zealand, taking the wicket of Scott Styris and only giving up 17 runs from his four overs.
Steyn's form continued into the Test series.
Man-of-the-Series award.
However Steyn then combined with Jacques Kalt.
Lord's typically hosts two Tests every summer plus two one-day internationals.
Furthermore, two matches in the Twenty20 Cup, but not the competition's finals day, are played at Lord's each season.
The oldest permanent fixture at Lord's is the annual Eton versus Harrow match which began in 1805  and celebrated its bicentenary in 2005.
The match is always fiercely contested.
Since 2000 it has been 55 overs per side, but before that it was declaration and before that it was two innings per side over two days.
Eton has the balance of wins, but the victor in the bicentenary year was Harrow.
The Museum continues to collect historic artefacts and also commissions new paintings and photography.
Australia's first win was in 1888 by 61 runs.
As of 25 August 2010 England have played 119 Test matches at Lord's, winning 45, losing 28 and drawing 46.
Lord's hosts two Test matches each summer, one match for each visiting team.
In 2010, the stadium hosted three Test matches.
Lord's was the venue for the Archery at the 2012 Summer Olympics .
A baseball game was held at Lord's during the Great War to raise funds for the Canadian Widows and Orphans Fund.
Bowls, archery and several other sports have been played at Lord's in the past, but never rugby or football.
Lord's was also one of the venues for the 2012 Summer Olympics .
The archery competition took place in front of the Pavilion, with the archers positioned in front of the Pavilion and the targets placed in front of the Media Centre just past the wicket table.
South Africa tour of India See also: List of centuries in Twenty20 International cricket During South Africa's tour to India in 2010, Raina was called in the squad for the second test, but was not selected in the playing XI.
He-series against Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe in Zimbabwe as all the other first-choice players were rested from the tournament.
India lost the first match under his captaincy against Zimbabwe by six wickets, but won the next match against Sri Lanka.
He made his debut in the Second Test after Yuvraj Singh was ill.
Sri Lanka made 4/642 declared and India were in trouble at 4/241 when Raina came in to join Sachin Tendulkar .
Yuvraj recovered in time for the Third Test but the selectors opted to retain Raina.
Gilchrist's actions have sparked debate amongst current and former players and umpires.
Gilchrist has been noted for his emotional outbursts on the cricket field, and has been fined multiple times for dissent against umpiring decisions.
Gilchrist has been the chair of the National Australia Day Council since 2008.
Gilchrist questioned the integrity of leading Indian batsman Sachin Tendulkar in relation to the evidence he presented in the Monkeygate dispute, which was about allegations of racism against Harbhajan Singh .
Gilchrist later insisted that he did not accuse Tendulkar of lying in his testimony.
Behind the batsmen, Rod Marsh and his captain Ian Chappell would vie with each other in profanity
So much so, that many opposing captains banned their players from the practice.
It's red, round and weighs about five ounces, in case you were wondering.
Richards hammered the next delivery out of the cricket grounds and into the nearby river Taff.
Greg, you know what it looks like, now go and find it.
On occasions he crossed the line from sledging to insulting; however, there are numerous occasions of classic sledges delivered by Hughes.
As he was celebrating with his teammates, Hughes stuck his hand out in Javed's path, and yelled, "tickets please!".
He also was on the books of Port Vale F.C. as an apprentice, though he never played football professionally.
Taylor played in 639 first-class matches.
The 1964 season was marked for Taylor's mid-season ankle injury.
Though it occurred when he was playing football, he told his county that he had slipped on an escalator.
According to Wisden the experience taught Taylor to be fastidious in his attention to physical fitness.
Over the winter of 1969, he was selected to tour Sri Lanka with the Marylebone Cricket Club .
He played one match, on 20 February 1970, against Ceylon at Colombo .
There are about 300 county cricketers and we can't all play for England.
Taylor, having been awarded Wisden Cricketer of the Year for 1977, unaware that he would be returning to Test cricket that winter.
He secured another 68 victims from behind the stumps across all matches.
Taylor returned to the County Championship for three matches before the home Pakistan Test series.
Nevertheless, he retained his place in the team.
Taylor, batting at number four, scored 20 runs as England replied with 286, however the tourists bowling success would not strike twice as Australia reached 339 to save the game, and Taylor was quiet behind the stumps that innings.
England could only reach 170/3 by the end of play.
Taylor made only 14 runs, but he held onto six catches for England's potent bowling attack.
On 27 January 1979, Geoffrey Boycott and Brearley walked out to bat at the Adelaide Oval for the fifth Test, having been put in by Australia.
The tourists were routed for 169 all out with Taylor only making four runs.
He partnered with Botham to take two catches as Australia were, in return, routed for 164.
Miller went on to make 64 before he was dismissed and John Emburey came to the crease, however by the Time Taylor was sent back England had reached 336/8, Taylor having scored 97 runs from 300 balls.
He passed his previous Test best of 45, and with his 97th run he both equalled his first-class best and reached 9,500 first-class runs.
John Thicknesse in 2004 wrote that "it said everything about his sportsmanship."
England thus reached the semi-finals, and faced New Zealand at Old Trafford on 20 June.
From August 1979 to November 1981, Taylor and England would play Australia in two Ashes series, with one other Test against India.
Taylor acquitted himself well over the winter tour of Australia and India, scoring 145 runs from four matches at 20.71, and his polished glovework took 20 catches and performed one stumping.
Taylor had as quiet game.

His keeping has netted him 13 catches, however.
Knott, selected for his superior batting skills, scored 178 runs from his two Test matches at 59.33.
Taylor toured India and Sri Lanka over the winter of 1981/82, playing in seven Test matches.
Though his keeping accounted for 19 batsmen, he scored only 88 runs over eight innings at 14.66.
On that day, his last County Championship match began against Hampshire.
This would not be Taylor's last outing with the club, however.
He captained Derbyshire Second XI in 1985 for eight games, though he did not keep wicket.
Batting last in the order, he was rarely called on to bat.
Style and equipment Taylor's wicket keeping abilities have been oft praised.
he has been without peer in the world for some years and would clearly have graced the England team but for Alan Knott.
He was noted for standing up to the stumps on nearly all occasions, stating that "Any decent slip catcher could do it standing back."
Taylor was careful with his fitness, following an ankle injury in 1964 kept him from the first seven games of the season.
This article needs additional citations for verification .
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Being caught out is the most common method of dismissal at higher levels of competition.
The batsman does not hit the ball with his bat or the gloved hand holding the bat.
The ball does not remain under the control of the fielder.
A fielder taking the catch makes contact with the boundary rope or the area outside the boundary.
If the catch taken is pronounced or obvious, the players need not appeal to the umpire; the batsman normally chooses to acknowledge the dismissal himself.
In the very strictest sense, this meant that the player did not finish catching the ball until he threw it away, though the player doesn't have to throw the ball to anyone in particular in so doing.
Australia went on to win the tournament.
They couldn't get back on, and India were behind the Duckworth-Lewis target score of 83 at the time, so South Africa were declared the winners.
However, two other men from this tiny but picturesque island have played international cricket for West Indies: the hard-hitting opener  and 21 T20 internationals so far, while slow left-armer Garey Mathurin played three T20 internationals in 2011 and 2012.
The last one was by Shaun Pollock, with 10 for 147 for South Africa against India in Bloemfontein in November 2001.
There have only been two instances of rival captains taking six or more wickets in the same Test: by Fazal Mahmood for Pakistan  at Headingley in 1982.
When Brian Lara scored his 501, the next-highest score was 116.
Is that the biggest difference between two scores in the same innings?
James Wallace from England Brian Lara's 501 not out for Warwickshire against Durham at Edgbaston in 1994 broke the individual first-class record of 499, set by Hanif Mohammad for Karachi in 1958-59.
Humayun's brother, the batsman Imran Farhat, had made his debut in the first match of that same series: he has now won 40 caps.
Note that Nunes kept wicket only in his first three Tests, in 1928.
Note that Sealy kept wicket only in his last two Tests, in 1939.
Note that Walcott kept wicket only in his first 15 Tests, from 1947 to 1951.
Note, Guillen was one of 14 Test players to play Test cricket for two nations, in this case the West Indies and New Zealand .
Most templates can be edited by anyone.
The reason for protection can be found in the protection log .
If there are no relevant entries in the protection log, the page may have been moved after being protected.
Find out more about how to get started editing Wikipedia .
You may prevent the proposed deletion by removing the notice, but please explain why in your edit summary or on the article's talk page .
Please consider improving the article to address the issues raised.
In particular, the speedy deletion process can result in deletion without discussion, and articles for deletion allows discussion to reach consensus for deletion.
You may prevent the proposed deletion by removing the notice, but please explain why in your edit summary or on the article's talk page .
Please consider improving the article to address the issues raised.
In particular, the speedy deletion process can result in deletion without discussion, and articles for deletion allows discussion to reach consensus for deletion.
While all contributions to Wikipedia are appreciated, content or articles may be deleted for any of several reasons .
You may prevent the proposed deletion by removing the notice, but please explain why in your edit summary or on the article's talk page .
Please consider improving the article to address the issues raised.
In particular, the speedy deletion process can result in deletion without discussion, and articles for deletion allows discussion to reach consensus for deletion.
Thank you for your recent edits.
Wikipedia appreciates your help.
The tested changes can then be added to this page in one single edit.
Please consider discussing any changes on the talk page before implementing them.
This page gives technical details for the {{reflist}} template.
See below for more information.
It encapsulates the Place this template near the top of articles that use the date format; see Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Lead section for more information about the order of elements near the beginning of the article.
The template is invisible except in edit mode.
The template is useful to the editors to quickly know which date format is to be used when adding new dates into an article.
It also facilitates article maintenance by enabling bots to recognise use of this format, and by adding the article to the hidden category Use dmy dates .
After being tagged, and bearing in mind article evolution, periodic script or bot runs clean up formats, correcting any new introductions since its last visit, and updating the visit date on the {{Use dmy dates}} template.
The dmy and mdy templates have almost always been used to indicate date styles in the body of the articles; although it may also indicate the flavour of dates in reference sections or parts thereof.
Therefore, this template notice ought to be read in conjunction with the blurb at Wikipedia:Date formattings .
In general, the date format used for publication dates within references should match that used within the article body.
However, it is common practice for archive and access dates to use the alternative ymd format.
In those cases, the archive and access date formats should not be altered when fixing dates.
This is the TemplateData documentation for this template used by VisualEditor and other tools.
TemplateData for Use dmy dates This template should be placed near the top of articles that use the dd mmm yyyy date format.
This template prefers inline formatting of parameters.
Football squad }} is designed to be used within squad list templates  squad.
Use this parameter when you want the name displayed on the top line of the box to be different than the full title of the article about the team; for example, where the article title is qualified to disambiguate between two similarly-named teams.
See {{ Olimpija Ljubljana squad }} for an example of usage.
The site was reliant on contributions from fans around the world who spent hours compiling electronic scorecards and contributing them to CricInfo's comprehensive archive, as well as keying in live scores from games around the world using CricInfo's scoring software, "dougie".
It used around $22m worth of the paper to pay off initial investors but only raised about £6 million by selling the remaining stock.
The magazine published its last issue in July 2007.
In 2007, the Wisden Group began to be broken up and sold to other companies; BSkyB acquired The Wisden Cricketer, while Sony Corporation acquired the Hawk-Eye ball tracking system.
He played domestic cricket for Punjab and played two One Day Internationals for India in 1994.

Mostly used in One Day Internationals .

A fourth stump line is roughly synonymous with the corridor of uncertainty.
The bowler must bowl another delivery, and the batsman cannot be dismissed by the bowler from that delivery.
Between the no-ball and the free hit, the fielders may not change positions .

A bowler's front foot is the last foot to contact the ground before the ball is released.


Fruit salad bowling is used most commonly in Twenty20 to prevent batsmen from getting comfortable.

Getting one's eye in when the batsman takes his time to assess the condition of the pitch, ball or weather etc before starting to attempt more potentially risky strokes.
Early first-class matches were usually the subject of big wagers and it was therefore desirable that the two sides should be perceived as being of roughly equal strength.
The concept is similar to that of handicapping in modern-day horse racing, whereby horses carry different weights in an attempt to equalise their chances of winning, again to encourage betting.

See also flick.
To edit this page, please enter the words that appear below in the box :Can't see the image?
Request an account Wikipedia is made by people like you.
You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reason:This page is currently protected so that only template editors and administrators can edit it.
Most templates can be edited by anyone.
The reason for protection can be found in the protection log .
If there are no relevant entries in the protection log, the page may have been moved after being protected.
Find out more about how to get started editing Wikipedia .
An administrator or template editor may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
It will add the page to an optional additional category.
Usually the "date" parameter of the calling template Parameter 4: Category all the articles go in, dated or not .
In either case the article will be added to Category:All articles to be split .
Category:Dutch mathematicians .
If it doesn't the page will be added to the hidden Category:Articles with tags with unsupported types .
An incorrect date is any date which is not of the form November 2015, e.g.
Find out more about how to get started editing Wikipedia .
An administrator may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
Your support would be of great help for this project.
It is involved in lot of innovative technology projects.
It would be helpful if we had an article about it on Wikipedia.
It would be nice if you could help me out with it.
I see no India related article on which you don't have any edit.
Moreover, your dedication towards India related topics and overall Wikipedia is really inspiring for every Wikipedian.
To learn more about this survey, please visit Research:Tech support satisfaction poll .
To opt-out of further notices concerning this survey, please remove your username from the an edit request, by clicking the button below and following instructions.
An administrator or template editor may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
That is the usual way we make meta templates since wiki markup has several drawbacks.
For instance it makes it harder to use parser functions and special characters in parameters.
The 2px wide border between groups and lists is drawn using the border-left property of the list cell.
Thus, if you wish to change the background color of the template (for example ), then you'll need to make the border-left-color match the background color (i.e.
The list cell width is initially set to 100%.
Thus, if you wish to manually set the width of group cells, you'll need to also specify the liststyle to have width: auto.
The default margin-left and margin-right of the outer navbox table are set to "auto;".
A version that does not require Tidy can be found at Wikipedia:WikiProject Transwiki/Template:Navbox .
More detailed information on copying {{Navbox}} to other wikis can be found on the talk page .
If the heading of the navbox spans more than one line, the second line will be displayed to the right of center.
This can be fixed by adding in front of the images.

An administrator or template editor may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
For more information see Category:Deprecated templates .
The tested changes can then be added to this page in one single edit.
Please consider discussing any changes on the talk page before implementing them.
This template is to be removed from all biographical articles in which it has been transcluded.
The tested changes can then be added to this page in one single edit.
Please consider discussing any changes on the talk page before implementing them.
Maintenance templates, such as {{ Citation needed }} or {{ Refimprove }}, should never be substituted.
A parameter "$N" may also be seen in some templates; this was required in an older version of the module, but is no longer necessary and may be removed.
Such templates are automatically placed in Category:Calls to Module:Unsubst that use $N .
In such cases the missing </noinclude> must be added before the ending Find out more about how to get started editing Wikipedia .
An administrator may then make the change on your behalf.
Please check the talk page first in case the issue is already being discussed.
A good length differs from bowler to bowler, based on the type, height and speed of the bowler.
Developed by Bosanquet around 1900. causing intentional damage to the pitch or ball.





Jayant Yadav  is an Indian cricketer .
He plays for Haryana in domestic cricket.
He is an all-rounder who bats right-handed, and bowls right-arm off break .
He was the second-highest run-getter of the 2012-13 Ranji Trophy .
He also had 34 dismissals to his name in 2012-13 Ranji season.
Daredevils had the services of two other wicketkeepers in Naman Ojha who has played most often for them and Puneet Bisht as well as the part-time keeping of Kedar Jadhav .
Manan’s inspiration is his grandfather.
He chose the former.
It was the encouragement from his grandfather that Manan decided to take up cricket.
Manan made it to the India U13 squad for Sharjah Cup in 2004.
Manan’s coach at the junior level was Harminder Singh .
But now he is coached by Yograj Singh who is the father of Yuvraj Singh .
He also participated in the Dhruve Pandove Trophy .
He was made the captain of the Punjab U19 team.
He led his team in winning the Vinoo Mankad Trophy .
He was also included in the India U19 team that participated in the Quadrangular Series which was held in Vishakhapatnam .
Manan scored 79 off 35 balls was studded with 15 fours and two sixes against Australia U19. Manan replaced Punjab wicketkeeper-batsman, Gitansh Khera in the Ranji Trophy 2011-12 season though he did not get enough opportunities.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Vishal0soni List of palaces in India This is an automated message from CorenSearchBot .
It is possible that the bot is confused and found similarity where none actually exists.
If that is the case, you can remove the tag from the article.
The article will be reviewed to determine if there are any copyright issues.
For legal reasons, we cannot accept copyrighted text or images borrowed from other web sites or printed material.
You have new messages at Template talk:Ten largest towns in Hanumangarh district .
You can remove this notice at any time by removing the {{Talkback}} or {{Tb}} template.
If you would like to participate in the discussion, you are invited to add your comments at the category's entry on the Categories for discussion page.
The tested changes can then be added to this page in one single edit.
Please consider discussing any changes on the talk page before implementing them.
This module is subject to page protection .
This module implements the {{ Navbox }} template.
Please see the template page for usage instructions.
You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reason:This page is currently protected so that only template editors and administrators can edit it.
Most templates can be edited by anyone.
The reason for protection can be found in the protection log .
If there are no relevant entries in the protection log, the page may have been moved after being protected.
The owners of the Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals have been suspended for two years due to spot fixing charges on 14 July 2015.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!==Venues== {| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center; margin:0 auto" |- !
The method used to set targets takes into account both the number of overs and the number of wickets lost.
There is no equivalent of Duckworth-Lewis Method in these matches.
See also: Scoring runs in cricket Cricket scorers keep track of many other facts of the game.
It was sponsored by the Daily Mail‍ '​s Lord Northcliffe and featured the famous Australian Soprano Dame Nellie Melba .
From private company to public service corporation and business, 1923–26The financial arrangements soon proved inadequate.
Mid 1925 found the future of broadcasting under further consideration this time by the Crawford committee.
Reith personally announced the end of the strike which he marked by reciting from Blake's "Jerusalem" signifying that England had been saved.
The superiority of the electronic system saw the mechanical system dropped early the following year.
How are you?
Naturally, the runner's objective, in this situation, is to elude the catcher's tag and touch the plate.
Prior to 2014, the catcher's best strategy was to block the runner's path so as to prevent the runner from reaching the plate at all.
Collisions between runners and catchers were common.
Without the ball in hand, the catcher must allow the runner to score uncontested.
If the catcher drops the ball while tagging the runner, the runner is safe.
Yadier Molina of the St. Louis Cardinals is known for using pickoffs with success, particularly at first base.
Any failure by the catcher can have dire consequences for his team.
Passed balls are possible whenever one or more runners are on base.
The catcher is then informally referred to as that pitcher's personal catcher.
Naturally, the potential problem with this arrangement is that if the pitcher prefers to work with the team's backup catcher, then the regular catcher—presumably the better player—must be benched.
However, this is somewhat leavened by the fact that, due to the physically grueling nature of the position, even "regular" catchers are normally asked to rest relatively frequently.
But the game will be remembered for one of the strangest field placings seen in English cricket for years.
The ploy developed as an extension of MS Dhoni's decision to stand back to the spinners while keeping for India in the Test series in England last summer.
The umpires, after consultation, allowed it.
Umpires Nick Cook and Graham Lloyd conferred at length and allowed play to continue, with Mitchell persisting in the tactic for the spinners from thereon.
Afterwards, he said he wanted another catcher around the corner and he felt he could do that himself, standing back.
That's how it started us thinking about it."Cobb
It's in the Laws and they've obviously looked into it and there's no Law against it.
You've just got to question whether it's in the spirit of the game.
But that's probably because it's never been done before.
When they first come out, these things usually get questioned and left alone."Earlier,
Another England hopeful David Willey produced the edge, but Rory Kleinveldt put down the straightforward chance at slip.
And the opening pair exploited Northants' generosity to put on 52 in the first six overs.
The home attack looked lacklustre and conceded eight wides in all.
In the chase of 212, Richard Levi and Josh Cobb's second wicket partnership resulted in 65 runs in six overs but Northamptonshire's reply never received the same level of impetus.
Cobb's first white-ball fifty in Steelback colours came off 31 balls.
Northants needed 57 off 23 balls when Shahid Afridi came to the crease and despite two big sixes off Joe Leach, Ajmal returned to have his Pakistani colleague caught by Moeen at long-on with Cobb falling two balls later in the same manner.
Cobb's 80 off 44 balls which included six sixes, was his highest score in T20 cricket and it helped Northants post 197 for 7, which in itself was the third highest T20 score on the ground, but it was the visitors who claimed victory by 14 runs and more to spare than the margin suggested.
The public's interest in television and live events was stimulated by Elizabeth II's coronation in 1953.
In 1958, Hugh Carleton Greene became head of News and Current Affairs.
A newsroom was created at Alexandra Palace, television reporters were recruited and given the opportunity to write and voice their own scripts–without the "impossible burden" of having to cover stories for radio too.
News Review and Westminster  were "colourised" shortly after.
It was said that over this September weekend, it took 65 removal vans to transfer the contents of Alexandra Palace across London.
This move to better technical facilities, but much smaller studios, allowed Newsroom and News Review to replace back projection with Colour-separation overlay .
During the 1960s satellite communication had become possible, Angela Rippon, pictured in 1983, became the first female news presenter in 1975On 14 September 1970 the first Nine O'Clock News was broadcast on television.
Richard Baker and Kenneth Kendall presented subsequent weeks, thus echoing those first television bulletins of the mid-1950s.
Angela Rippon became the first female news presenter of the Nine O'Clock News in 1975.
Her work outside the news was controversial at the time, appearing on The Morecambe and Wise Christmas Show in 1976 singing and dancing.
The Ceefax service became much more diverse before it ceased on 23 October 2012: it not only had subtitling for all channels, it also gave information such as weather, flight times and film reviews.
On 27 August 1981 Moira Stuart became the first African Caribbean female newsreader to appear on British television.
The combined newsroom for domestic television and radio was opened at Television Centre in West London in 1998.
The relaunch also brought all bulletins into the same style of set with only small changes in colouring, titles, and music to differentiate each.
The Six O'Clock News became double headed with George Alagiah and Sophie Raworth after Huw Edwards and Fiona Bruce moved to present the Ten.
Amanda Farnsworth became daytime editor while Craig Oliver was later named editor of the Ten O'Clock News.
This was later replaced following viewer criticism.
In his blog, he wrote that by using the same resources across the various broadcast media meant fewer stories could be covered, or by following more stories, there would be fewer ways to broadcast them.
A new graphics and video playout system was introduced for production of television bulletins in January 2007.
Lowe was also responsible for the music on Radio One's Newsbeat .
The theme has had several changes since 1999, the latest in March 2013.
This political objectivity is sometimes questioned.
It was also the least likely to use independent sources, like the Red Cross, who were more critical of the war.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!==Teams and standings== {{2011 Indian Premier League Points Table}}  Pune and Kochi are new to the league.
The auction for these teams was held at  required the incorporation of the companies.<ref
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!==Statistics==  ===Most runs=== <div style="width:100%; max-width:840px"> {| class="wikitable sortable" style="text-align: center; width:100%" !
The tested changes can then be added to this page in one single edit.
Please consider discussing any changes on the talk page before implementing them.

Use this parameter when you want the name displayed on the top line of the box to be different than the full title of the article about the team; for example, where the article title is qualified to disambiguate between two similarly-named teams.
See {{ Olimpija Ljubljana squad }} for an example of usage.
Remember that you should only use one Wikipedia account .
You are required to disclose all of your alternative and previously-used accounts in your request using the 'Comments' field.
Any account requests that show evidence or the indication that you have ownership of an undisclosed account will not be approved.
Any requests made with the intention of using the account as an illegitimate alternative  may be reported, and may result in additional sanctions.
Understand that this is not the place to request assistance with the deletion or recovery of any existing accounts.
If you have forgotten your password, and you did not register your account with an e-mail address, then it cannot be recovered.
When you are ready to begin:Click the "Request an account" link below and fill out all fields.
Check your e-mail inbox for updates and further instructions regarding your account request.
If your request is approved and your account has been created successfully, you will receive an automated e-mail from wiki wikimedia.org
If there are problems with your request, you will receive an email with an explanation and the reason your account request could not be approved.
However, it is not uncommon for requests to take 2-3 days depending on the work load and volume of requests currently pending review.
Please be patient; your request will be processed as soon as possible.
Verify that the account update email wasn't accidentally moved or otherwise triggered by any email filters or rules that you have set up for your inbox.
Check all of your directories and sub-directories, and search for wiki wikimedia.org

Did you request an account using an email address from Gmail ?
Check each category and verify that the email wasn't automatically routed from your inbox and into one of them.
Try recovering the account that you requested.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!==Leading international wicket-keepers==  ===Test=== The following top 10 wicket-keepers for dismissals in Test cricket.<ref>{{cite
In 2006, he cosponsored H.R. 4411, the Goodlatte -Leach Internet Gambling Prohibition Act.
Though the bill died in committee, the Iowa legislature has since passed similar legislation and federal law has now been enacted limiting the sale of pseudoephedrine .
The 2000 round of redistricting, however, significantly altered Iowa's congressional map.
Latham's home in Alexander, along with most of the eastern third of his old district, was placed in the new 4th District in the north-central part of the state.
This district was considered much more competitive than Latham's old district.

However, he was reelected four times from this district without much difficulty.
This may be because he is the only Iowan on the powerful House Appropriations Committee .
It is considered very difficult to unseat an Appropriations Committee member.
In the 2008 election Latham won against Democratic nominee Becky Greenwald with 61 percent of the vote even as Barack Obama carried the district by eight points.
The new congressional map placed Latham and fellow Republican Steve King into the same district.
The district was pushed well to the west, and now extended from Mason City to Sioux City.
He defeated Democratic incumbent Leonard Boswell in the 2012 election.
On February 27, 2013, Latham announced that he will not seek the open Senate seat of Tom Harkin in 2014.

Mostly used in One Day Internationals .

A fourth stump line is roughly synonymous with the corridor of uncertainty.
The archive was sold to Brian Deutsch and is now owned by Getty Images .
In the early days, it carried out essential research into acoustics and programme level and noise measurement.
The channel had an educational aim, which was modified later on in its life to offer documentaries.
In 2002, several television and radio channels were reorganised.
This led to resignations of senior management members at the time including the then Director General, Greg Dyke .
On 20 October 2010, the Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne announced that the television licence fee would be frozen at its current level until the end of the current charter in 2016.
In 2011, he impressed the then Maharashtra coach Surendra Bhave and was selected in the Maharashtra Ranji squad later that year.
Team 2's target is 229, and the score to tie is 228.
This is because both sides will be in the same position of having the same number of overs and 10 wickets available, and knowing this throughout their innings, so having the same amount of resource available.
Team 2's target score is first calculated once Team 1's innings has finished.
They would have batted less conservatively, and scored more runs at the expense of more wickets, if they had known that their innings was going to be shorter than initially thought.
If there are interruption before or during the Team 2's innings, or Team 2's innings is cut short, then D/L will reduce Team 2's target score from the initial target set at the end of Team 1's innings, in proportion to the reduction in Team 2's resources.
If there are multiple interruptions in the second innings, the target will be adjusted downwards each time.
If there are interruptions which both increase and decrease the target score, then the net effect on the target could be either an increase or decrease, depending on which interruptions were bigger.
The match was reduced to 46 overs each and South Africa scored 250/9.
The D/L method was applied which adjusted India's target to 268.
Are you ready to begin?Web sites that accept postings from the public, like this wiki, are often abused by spammers who use automated tools to post their links to many sites.
Unfortunately, this may inconvenience users with limited vision or using text-based or speech-based browsers.
At the moment we do not have an audio alternative available.
If you are trying to create an account, you may request that an account be created for you .
If you are trying to log in to your account and have mistyped your password, wait 15 minutes and try again.
If you are trying to add content to an article, contact the help desk for assistance.
To edit this page, please enter the words that appear below in the box :Can't see the image?
Request an account Wikipedia is made by people like you.
It can be your real name, if you so choose, but you should be aware of the risks involved in editing under your real name.
If you choose "Dr.
If you prefer to be less formal, leave off the title.
However, you should read the section on using your real name as your username.
In the latter case, however, you may still request permission to use that name .
Your username can be virtually any string of characters .
This page describes certain types of usernames that are specifically disallowed, primarily because they can be considered offensive, misleading, or promotional, or imply that the account does not belong to an individual.
This section lists the types of usernames that are considered inappropriate.
The same criteria also apply to signatures .
These lists are not necessarily exhaustive.
Use common sense in applying these rules .
For guidance on how to deal with inappropriate names if encountered, see Dealing with inappropriate usernames below.
Usernames that appear similar to naming conventions used by community administrative processes, such as those starting with Vanished user .
Disruptive or offensive usernames The following types of usernames are not permitted because they are disruptive or offensive:Usernames that are likely to offend other contributors, making harmonious editing difficult or impossible, for example by containing profanities or referencing controversies.
Usernames that contain or imply personal attacks .
Usernames that seem intended to provoke emotional reaction .
Note that usernames that are inappropriate in another language, or that represent an inappropriate name with misspellings and substitutions, or do so indirectly or by implication, are still considered inappropriate.
Request an account Wikipedia is made by people like you.
The franchise was eventually named "Mumbai Indians.
".2008–2009: Struggle in the initial seasons The Indian Premier League named four players as icon players for their respective city franchises which made the players unavailable to play for any team other than their city team.
Sachin Tendulkar was named Mumbai's icon player.
The icon player was also entitled to earn 15% more than the next-best paid player in their team.
Before the start of the season, Mumbai Indians traded Robin Uthappa for Zaheer Khan with Royal Challengers Bangalore, and Ashish Nehra for Shikhar Dhawan with the Delhi Daredevils .
Shaun Pollock retired after the first season and became the head coach of the team.
They relied heavily on Duminy and Tendulkar's batting, and Malinga's bowling along with minimal contributions from other players.
With only five wins from 14 matches, Mumbai finished on seventh place in the league table.
Former India cricketer Robin Singh was named as the head coach of the team as Pollock took up the role of bowling coach.
Mumbai won seven of their first eight games to take the top spot in the points table.
Their success was mainly due to the efforts of Tendulkar, Malinga, Harbhajan, Ambati Rayudu and Saurabh Tiwary .
They won three of the remaining six league games and finished with 20 points from 14 games at the top of the points table.
They beat the Royal Challengers Bangalore by 35 runs in the semifinal, thanks to Pollard's all-round efforts .
At the final, they were defeated by the Chennai Super Kings by 22 runs.
Mumbai qualified for the 2010 Champions League Twenty20 where they were eliminated in the group stage with two wins and two defeats in four matches.
This retention left the franchise with the power of spending $4.5 million at the auction where they purchased Indian batsman Rohit Sharma for $2 million, former Australian all-rounder Andrew Symonds for $850,000, and pacer Munaf Patel for $700,000.
They finished third on the points table with 18 points from 14 games and qualified for the Eliminator.
The Eliminator was played at the Wankhede where Mumbai faced the Kolkata Knight Riders .
After winning the toss and electing to bowl first, Mumbai restricted Kolkata to 147 in 20 overs and chased down the target for the loss of six wickets with four balls to spare.
Munaf Patel won the Man of the Match for his bowling figures of 3/27.
With this win, Mumbai qualified for the Qualifying final against Royal Challengers Bangalore, the winner of which would play the Super Kings in the final.
Mumbai kept losing wickets at regular intervals from the start of their innings and could score only 142/8, falling short by 43 runs.
The top two leading wicket-takers of the season were Mumbai Indians pacers Lasith Malinga and Munaf Patel with 28 and 22 wickets respectively.
Mumbai qualified for the 2011 Champions League Twenty20 held in India.
Before the start of the tournament, six first-choice Indian players in the Mumbai squad including Tendulkar, Sharma and Patel were ruled out of the tournament due to injuries and two more Indian players were ruled out based on medical reports.
An exception was made for the Mumbai Indians which permitted them to field five overseas players during the tournament.
Harbhajan was named the stand-in captain in the absence of Tendulkar.
Mumbai had two wins, one defeat and one no result in the group stage which gave them the second place on the group points table with five points.
They qualified for the semifinal and Mumbai batsman Suryakumar Yadav returned to the squad after recovering from his injury.
This led to the withdrawal of the concession given by the Champions League for the Mumbai Indians to field five overseas players.
Mumbai faced Somerset County Cricket Club in the semifinal at Chennai.
Batting first, Mumbai made 160/5 in 20 overs.
Somerset's chase was dented by Malinga who picked four wickets for 20  to help Mumbai restrict Somerset to 150 and win the match by 10 runs.
The final was also played in Chennai where Mumbai met Royal Challengers Bangalore.
Mumbai batted first and managed only 139 in 20 overs.
Bangalore started strongly in the run-chase putting 38 for the first wicket before Malinga broke the partnership.
Harbahajan was named player of the match and Malinga won the man of the tournament award.
Andrew Symonds retired from all forms of cricket in early-2012.
Tendulkar stepped down from captaincy hours before the season's first game following which Harbhajan was appointed as the captain.
In the first half of the league stage, Mumbai had four wins and four defeats, including three losses at home.
Johnson was ruled out of rest of the season in late-April with an injury and Dwayne Smith was named his replacement in the squad.
Mumbai fared better in the second half of the league stage, winning six of their eight matches.
They finished third on the points table with 20 points from 16 matches and qualified for the Eliminator against the fourth-placed Chennai Super Kings at Bangalore.
Mumbai won the toss and put Chennai in to bat first.
After losing two wickets inside the first two overs, Chennai managed to put up 187/5 in 20 overs mainly because of their captain MS Dhoni 's unbeaten 20-ball 51.
Mumbai's chase had started solidly with the score reading 47/0 in the fifth over, before they started losing wickets at regular intervals to end at 149/9 and lose the match by 38 runs.
Mumbai, placed in Group B, were winless in the tournament with three defeats and one no result.
In their third match against the Delhi Daredevils Mumbai once again lost their openers Ricky Ponting and Sachin Tendulkar cheaply and this time it was again Dinesh Karthik who brought the match in Mumbai's grasp but,this time it was not Kieron Pollard but it was Rohit Sharma with him which helped the Mumbai Indians reach the formidable score of 209/5.
At one stage it looked that David Warner would snatch the game away from Mumbai but the Mumbai Indians bowlers got rid of David Warner by dismissing him and then the Delhi Daredevils collapsed due to which Mumbai Indians won comfortably by 44 runs.
With Rohit Sharma in good batting form, he was made the captain.
They continued the victory streak in the Champions League.
After that they were inconsistent with their performance.
They won against Royal Challengers Bangalore but lost against Chennai Super Kings .
They won against the Sunrisers Hyderabad and again lost against Kolkata Knight Riders .
But after losing against the Kolkata Knight Riders they won against Kings XI Punjab and the Delhi Daredevils respectively.
The Mumbai Indians qualified in the qualifier round of the clt20 2014.
In the second match they faced the Southern Express .
In this way Mumbai's clt20 2014 campaign ended.
They even lost Aaron Finch and Corey Anderson due to injury for the rest of the season.
He was the top scorer for Mumbai with 540 runs and joint second  in total for the season behind David Warner.
The introduction of another strike bowler Mitchell McClenaghan in the team provided good support to Lasith Malinga upfront.
The Mumbai Indians play their home games at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai.
Mumbai Indians won six out of the seven matches at the Brabourne Stadium that season.
Most wickets=== <div style="width:100%; max-width:840px"> {| class="wikitable sortable" style="text-align: center; width:100%" !
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!===Most wickets=== <div style="width:100%; max-width:840px"> {| class="wikitable sortable" style="text-align: center; width:100%" !
By clicking the "Save page" button, you agree to the Term delivery.
Between the no-ball and the free hit, the fielders may not change positions .

A bowler's front foot is the last foot to contact the ground before the ball is released.


Fruit salad bowling is used most commonly in Twenty20 to prevent batsmen from getting comfortable.

Getting one's eye in when the batsman takes his time to assess the condition of the pitch, ball or weather etc before starting to attempt more potentially risky strokes.
Early first-class matches were usually the subject of big wagers and it was therefore desirable that the two sides should be perceived as being of roughly equal strength.
The concept is similar to that of handicapping in modern-day horse racing, whereby horses carry different weights in an attempt to equalise their chances of winning, again to encourage betting.

See also flick.
A good length differs from bowler to bowler, based on the type, height and speed of the bowler.
Developed by Bosanquet around 1900. causing intentional damage to the pitch or ball.





O'Brien was selected in Ireland's 15-man squad for the 2011 World Cup to be hosted by Bangladesh, India, and Sri Lanka between February and April.
The 2007 Charter specifies that the mission of the Corporation is to "inform, educate and entertain".
The 2007 Charter made the largest change in the governance of the Corporation since its inception.
At the end of his 17-year career he was the most capped player in Pakistani Test history.
His talent was first recognised in 1967 with members of the England under 25 team stating that he was the best keeper to come out of the South Asia.
It was in England where he made his Test debut, with Colin Milburn being his first dismissal.
With the bat he only managed 15.88 per innings in his career but played some famous innings for Pakistan.
According to Tony Greig, commentator and former England captain, most people believe Alan Knott was the best wicket-keeper to have played the game in that era but Knott himself believed Bari was better than him.
Knott was educated at Northumberland Heath Secondary Modern School.
He gained his first Test cap at the age of 21, having been named Cricket Writers' Club Young Cricketer of the Year in 1965.
When he made his debut, it was against the Pakistani tourists in 1967.
However, for the fourth and fifth matches of the series, he was picked again.
In the winter of 1968/69, again against Pakistan, he confirmed his position as England's premier wicketkeeper-batsman.
In 1970, he was Wisden's Cricketer of the Year.
Knott helped England win the Ashes in England in 1977 but had been persuaded by England colleague Tony Greig to join Kerry Packer 's World Series Cricket .
This effectively put his England career on hold as the 'Packer players' were banned from Test cricket.
He did not play in the tour of the West Indies that immediately followed, but was picked for the final two Tests of the famous 1981 Ashes series.
Knott retired from all cricket in 1985, at the age of 39.
He then mentored his son James Knott and Jack Russell .
Knott was known for his idiosyncratic behaviour on the field.
According to Bob Taylor, Knott preferred strong-backed gloves with full webbing and plenty of padding in the palms, wearing two pairs of Chamois inners with strips of plasticine across the palms.
He now lives in Cyprus .
In the October 2004 edition of The Wisden Cricketer magazine he was voted as the wicket-keeper in "England's Greatest post-war XI" receiving votes from 20 of the 25 panellists.
Ali make his first-class debut, against Cambridge University in May.
He impressed with the bat, making 57 not out in his only innings, and sent down two overs for 15 runs.
He made three half-centuries in the tournament, and took seven wickets.
Ali's opportunities were somewhat limited, however, and Alex Loudon took his place in the side.
At the end of the 2010 season Worcestershire secured promotion to the first division of the County Championship.
During the 2011 season Moeen spent three weeks as Worcestershire's acting captain wuniya Hila Denge Hum", which translates to We will rock the world.
The team's primary color is blue with silver stripes on either sides of the jersey.
The team colours was almost the same in 2008 and 2009, with Idea as the principal sponsor, except for the colour shade and additional sponsors.
In 2011, kit used in 2010 is being used with Hero Honda as the main sponsor.
The 2011 jersey also has three gold stripes going towards the back on the side of the jersey for the new players in the team.
In 2015, Performax, an in-house brand of Reliance Trends, replaced Adidas as the kit manufacturer.
The current theme song of the Mumbai Indians is the famous Ala Re.
Outside of the player auction, the franchise also signed up Ajinkya Rahane and Abhishek Nayar .
In the 2009 player auction,the Mumbai Indians signed up South African player, JP Duminy for $950,000.
He was the third most expensive pick after Kevin Pietersen and Andrew Flintoff .
In addition Kyle Mills and Mohammad Ashraful for $150,000 and $75,000 respectively were bought by MI management.
The team also signed Graham Napier and Ryan McLaren at the pre-auction signings.
The retention left them with the power of spending only $4.5 million at the mega-auction.
Also at the auction, Glenn Maxwell was purchased by Mumbai Indians.
In the 2008–2009 transfer window, Mumbai Indians conducted two straight swap deals, with no money exchanged.
Ashish Nehra was swapped with Shikhar Dhawan of Delhi Daredevils  who plays for Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy .
Tamil Nadu wicket-keeper Dinesh Karthik transferred to Mumbai Indians for $2.35 million .
Ali Murtaza move to Pune Warriors India .
Delete them immediately!If you are sure the statement you want to tag is not factual, even if it does not come under either of the preceding headings, it may still be appropriate to be bold and simply edit it out of the text .
This year's Sri Lanka Premier League was cancelled after all franchises refused to pay their bank guarantees.
All franchises had lost interest in participating in the tournament after they all made losses from the inaugural season.
Both features were also used in the Caribbean Premier League.
These two teams join the eight teams that received direct entry in the group stage.
The knockout stage consists of two semi-finals, with the top team of one group facing the second from the other.
The winners of the semi-finals play the grand final to determine the winners of the competition.
Points awarded in the qualifying and group stages:You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
At the end of the 2012 English County season, O'Brien left Northamptonshire after six seasons.
On 16 February 2015, he smashed unbeaten 79 runs off 60 balls with 11 fours, guided Ireland to the victory against another Test match playing nations, the West Indies .
This was Ireland's third consecutive victory over test playing nations in three consecutive world cups.
Daylight Saving Time  was used briefly during the China–Indian War of 1962 and the Indo–Pakistani Wars of 1965 and 1971 .
Criticism and proposals The country's east–west distance of more than 2,933 km  covers over 28 degrees of longitude, resulting in the sun rising and setting almost two hours earlier on India's eastern border than in the Rann of Kutch in the far west.
Inhabitants of the northeastern states have to advance their clocks with the early sunrise and avoid the extra consumption of energy after daylight hours.
In 2014, Chief Minister of Assam Tarun Gogoi started campaigning for another time zone for Assam and other northeastern states of India.
However, the proposal would need to be cleared by the Central Government of India.
Official time signals are generated by the Time and Frequency Standards Laboratory at the National Physical Laboratory in New Delhi, for both commercial and official use.
The signals are based on atomic clocks and are synchronised with the worldwide system of clocks that support the Coordinated Universal Time .
To communicate the exact time to the people, the exact time is broadcast over the state–owned All India Radio and Doordarshan television network.
Telephone companies have dedicated phone numbers connected to mirror timeservers that also relay the precise time.
Another increasingly popular means of obtaining the time is through Global Positioning System  receivers.
PS: While we are it why not knock out AB de Villiers and Virat Kohli cheaply?
They got all that.
So what they do on the day of the big finale?
It was the ease with which the runs flowed and the calm manner in which they were accumulated by the Chennai openers that caught the eye.
There were several big shots but nearly all of them were in conventional zones.
There was just one bad shot in the first 14 overs.
He then tried to slog the next ball across the line and edged it to the leg side.
For the duration of the partnership, which lasted 14.5 overs, they complemented each other with contrasting approaches.
Vijay went the other way.
He punctuated his flamboyant on-the-up hits with quieter punches for singles and twos.
They both ran between the wickets hard and fast and the scoring-rate never flagged.
Hussey pulled the next delivery, from Zaheer Khan, over the backward square-leg boundary to launch the assault.
They repeated that double-dose of sixes again.
Hussey swung the final delivery of the fifth over, bowled by Mohammad, over the midwicket boundary and Vijay lifted the next ball, from Chris Gayle, over long-on.
They started their bowling in the same way.
Ashwin just needed three deliveries to remove the chief thorn in their path.
Though he had captained England Under-19s, it was the first time he filled the role for his county.
As he was inexperienced, Moeen approached senior players Vikram Solanki and Ben Scott for advice.

Against South Africa he managed 10 runs and bowled two overs for 17 runs.
However, in the second Test of the series he made his maiden century in the second innings having started the final day with England on 57 for 5. England lost the match when Jimmy Anderson was caught off the penultimate ball of the match having survived 55 balls.
In the first Test against India, Ali took four wickets in the match, as well as scoring 14 with the bat.
In the second match he made scores of 32 and 39, but could not prevent England from losing to go 1-0 down in the series.
He followed this up by taking figures of 4-39 in the fourth test, taking the prized wicket of MS Dhoni.
In the final match of the series Ali took 2-34 to help England win their first match of the series.
In the second game he could only score two, although he did finish with figures of 1-38.
In the hire match he scored 58 and took figures of 2-36 as England won their first match of the tour.
He was less impressive in the next two games, making just 23 runs and taking one wicket in the two matches combined.
Ahead of the Tri series against Australia and India it was announced that Ali would keep his spot at the top of the order for England.
He scored 22 in the first match of the series against Australia as England lost the first game of the tournament.
In the following match against India Ali scored eight with the bat and took 1-31 with the ball.
He made 46 in the next game against Australia and also took two wickets, but England lost the match.
In the must win game against India, Ali took 2-35 to help England reach the final.
He also took two wickets in Scotland's innings as he earned the man of the match award.
He was less effective against Sri Lanka, making just 15 and taking figures of 1-50 as England lost the game.
This meant they had to beat Bangladesh to qualify for the Quarter finals, but they suffered defeat, with Ali making just 15 as England failed to chase down 275.
Injury ruled Ali out of the final game against Afghanistan, which England won.
West Indies and New Zealand Due to his injury at the World Cup, Ali was not initially selected for the West Indies tour .
In the second Test Moeen made 58rgest political controversies in recent years.
The government denounced the reports and accused the corporation of poor journalism.
An inquiry led by Lord Hutton was announced by the British government the following day to investigate the circumstances leading to Kelly's death, concluding that "Dr.
Kelly took his own life."
Because of the criticism in the Hutton report, Davies resigned on the day of publication.

Firstly, because the time period over which it was conducted  surrounded the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and Ariel Sharon 's stroke, which produced more positive coverage than usual.
Most other major UK broadcasters did air this appeal, but rival Sky News did not.
For example, correspondents were banned by the former apartheid régime of South Africa.
At the restart both innings were reduced to 35 overs, and Sri Lanka finished on 242/8.
England's target was set by D/L at 236 from 35 overs.
India batted first, and were all out for 328.
Pakistan, batting second, were 311/7 when bad light stopped play after the 47th over.
Pakistan's target, had the match continued, was 18 runs in 18 balls, with three wickets in hand.
".The D/L method was used in the group stage match between Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe at the 20/20 World Cup in 2010 .
The essence of the D/L method is 'resources'.
Each team is taken to have two 'resources' to use to make as many runs as possible: the number of overs they have to receive; and the number of wickets they have in hand.
If the second team fail to reach the par score then they have lost.
At one point, India were ahead according to this calculation, during one rain delay  would correspondingly have won if play had not resumed.
This example does show how crucial  the decisions of the umpires can be, in assessing at exactly what point the rain is heavy enough to justify ceasing play.
If the umpires of that match had halted play one ball earlier, England would have been ahead on D/L, and so would have won the match.
For 50-over matches, each team must face at least 20 overs before D/L can decide the game, unless one or both sides have been bowled out in less than 20 overs and/or the team batting second has reached its target in less than 20 overs.
For Twenty20 games, each side must face at least five overs before D/L can decide the game, unless one or both sides have been bowled out in less than five overs and/or the team batting second has reached its target in less than five overs.
Therefore, it loses some of the previous advantages of transparency and simplicity.
The original version was named the Standard Edition, and the new version was named the Professional Edition.
For higher scoring matches, the results start to diverge and the difference increases the higher the first innings total.
The decision on which edition should be used is for the cricket authority which runs the particular competition.
In fact, the Daredevils left the likes of Vettori, Collingwood and McGrath on the bench for most of the tournament, preferring to go with the oversas combination of Nannes, de Villiers, Dilshan and David Warner .
Nannes in particular, who was again picked over McGrath, was punished by Gilchrist and later by Andrew Symonds .
However, Delhi managed to qualify for 2009 Champions League Twenty20 because of their performance in group stage.
Delhi was the table topper or the league topper in 2012.
Morne Morkel of Delhi was the highest wicket taker of the tournament.
Delhi came third in the tournament and qualified for the second time in champions league.
Iconic Australian pace bowler Glenn McGrath expressed disappointment over not being picked to play any match during the whole season, and has since then stopped playing for Delhi.
Therefore each team will play an extended season of 16 matches.
Mahela Jayawardane was appointed as the new captain of the Delhi Daredevils as Virender Sehwag stepped down from captaincy during 2012 Champions League Twenty20.
Virender Sehwag and Mahela Jayawardene 's partnership led to an inevitable win against Mumbai Indians in which they scored 161.
Sehwag was the Man of the Match for his brilliant score of 95* of 57 balls.
After this match, they faced the kings X1 Punjab and lost again.
Delhi Daredevils never got into the game and lost by 33 runs.
Their final game was against Pune Warriors India which was to decide which team would come last.
Delhi Daredevils were going fine until they started losing wickets rapidly.
With no players retained, the team will have the maximum right-to-match cards among all the franchises at the auction: i.e., three.
They will also have their full purse of Rs 600 million  to spend at the players auction.
Virender Sehwag now represents King's XI Punjab franchise.
They lost their first match, against Royal Challengers Bangalore, however they won their next match against Kolkata Knight Riders.
Delhi Daredevils, won their next match against Mumbai Indians.
The Delhi Daredevils won only two out of their 14 matches, that too all in the United Arab Emirates.
In the process you may end up confirming that the statement is too doubtful to remain.
Gross examples of this sort of thing are, frankly, vandalism, but otherwise thoughtful and well-behaved editors may at times be guilty of this one unconsciously.
You may leave the copyediting to someone else, or learn more about citing sources on Wikipedia .
The most constructive thing to do in most cases is probably to supply the reference requested, even if you feel the tag was not justified.
For any version listed below, click on its date to view it.
For more help, see Help:Page history and Help:Edit summary .
At the time of re-installation of the obelisk in Delhi, in 1356, no one knew the meaning of the script engraved in the stone.
About five hundred years later, the script was deciphered by James Prinsep in 1837 with help from scripts discovered on other pillars and tablets in South Asia.

Inscription on Ashoka Pillar Let stone pillars be prepared and let this edict of dharma  be engraven thereon, that it may endure unto the remotest ages.
He didn't need to do this, but he has done it.
Hodge cuts it to short third and charges off right away.
Villiers meanwhile doesn't know that this is an easy chance, and gets this wild throw, collects it diving to his left, and in the same motion flicks it onto the stumps even as he is going down.
Replays show Patel has lost by inches 73/4The stadium is the home ground for Kerala Blasters team in Indian Super League since 2014.
The game between Kerala Blasters FC and Chennaiyin FC saw 61,323 spectators on 30 November 2014.
Kerala Blasters has the highest average attendances  for football clubs outside of Europe in domestic league matches.
In the inaugural season of Indian Super League, Kerala Blasters finished fourth in the group stages with 19 points from 14 games and qualified for Semi-final after beating Pune City FC .
Kerala Blasters FC was unbeaten in six of their seven home games.
In semi-final which happened to be the last home match of this year for Kerala Blasters FC, Kerala Blasters FC won in emphatic fashion by trouncing toppers Chennaiyin FC with scoreline 3-0.
He scored nearly 10,000 runs at an average approaching 40 runs per innings, an impressive statistic when compared to other specialist wicket-keepers over time, as well as completing 447 catches and 22 stumpings.
Both brothers represented WA at cricket at schoolboy level.
Marsh played his first competitive match at the age of eight for the Armadale under-16s.
He kept wicket from the start, but batting was his strength.
At thirteen he captained the state schoolboys' team, and joined the West Perth district club.
In order to further his keeping, Marsh joined the University club .
Marsh replaced the retired Becker for the 1969–70 season.
At the time, Australia was touring India and South Africa with Brian Taber and Ray Jordon as the team's wicketkeepers.
In the autumn of 1970, an Australian second team toured New Zealand with John MacLean as wicketkeeper.
Therefore, Marsh was behind these players in the pecking order.
His superior batting had won him the position.
Even on his debut in the First Test in the 1970–71 Ashes series he took four catches in his first innings.
Marsh became an integral part of the team as the side improved during the 1972 tour of England.
He also hit 236 against the tourists for WA, the best score of his career.
In the same match he passed Wally Grout 's Australian wicket-keeping record of 187 Test dismissals.
When the breakaway World Series Cricket was formed, Marsh had no hesitation in signing for Kerry Packer .
He claimed 54 dismissals in 16 Supertests.
Upon his return to traditional international cricket in 1979–80, his age did not affect his keeping ability.
On the 1981 tour of England, he took 23 dismissals to become the first wicketkeeper to take 100 dismissals in Ashes Tests, broke Knott’s world record in 22 fewer Tests and passed 3000 runs in Test cricket.
His batting form fell away towards the end of his Test career, his last 22 Tests yielding only 589 runs at an average of 19.63.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!==
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
For more help, see Help:Page history and Help:Edit summary .
It is in the elite group of the Ranji Trophy .
Its main home ground is Barabati Stadium in Cuttack .
The Odisha cricket team is selected by the Odisha Cricket Association .
The Odisha Cricket Association organises the Odisha Premier League every year to promote cricket and to search for local talent throughout the state.
Pathankot is an ancient city and has historical significance.
It was ruled by many rulers.
Jatpal established his dynasty at Pathankot and took the control of whole country in the foot of the hills.
In the end of the 17th century, he shifted his capital to Nurpur.
Pathankot city is the district headquarters.
In Mughal records it was known as Paithan, an abbreviation of Pratishthan from which the Pathania Rajputs derive their name.
They mostly live in and around Himachal Pradesh, in North India.
It was an ancient traditional custom of the Rajputs for the king, almost in all instances, to take his name from the name of the country where he exercised his dominion.
The capital was shifted from Pathankot to Dhameri Nurpur during the reign of Raja Basu Dev 1580–1613.
The Kingdom of Nurpur had its ca The goal is now competing for top goal of this season.
The I-League football team Chirag United Club Kerala  played their home matches in the stadium for the 2011–12 I-League season .
Delhi, Mumbai, Guwahati, Goa and Kolkata are the other venues.
The Celebrity Cricket League team Kerala Strikers is playing its home matches in the stadium since 2012.
However the new stadium proposed to be built at Edakochiis currently facing problems from environmental activists who feel that the construction of the stadium could have adverse effects on the environment.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
This list may not reflect recent changes .
Throughout his international career, Moin had to compete with another wicket-keeper, Rashid Latif .
Moin kept wickets in the 1992 Cricket World Cup which Pakistan won and the 1999 Cricket World Cup where Pakistan finished runners up.
Latif kept wickets in the 1996 Cricket World Cup and the 2003 Cricket World Cup .
Despite close rivalries, Moin is mostly remembered as the better player as their performance after the glove-work came onto how they batted.
However, Moin had the keeping record of 2.14 dismissals per test against Latif 3.51 per test.
At the end of the season, he retired from cricket finishing with 200 not out against Hyderabad, his highest first class score.
In 2007, Moin signed with the unofficial Indian Cricket League and coached the Hyderabad Heroes .
In the 2008 edition of the competition, he coached the expansion team, the Lahore Badshahs .
Moin was appointed the manager of the team in August 2013.
He was appointed chief selector for the Pakistani team in 2013.
But in 2015, during the Cricket World Cup 2015 he was removed from the position.
So far he has authored 11 books on the subject, all in Hindi.
He made his Kent debut on 22 July 1939 against Surrey at Blackheath.
After Gibb had played the first Test, Evans got his chance in the second at Melbourne.
His innings of 101 came from 170 runs which were scored while he was at the wicket with Jack Ikin .
In the first Test at Trent Bridge he scored his maiden Test fifty with an innings of 74 that contained 14 fours.
England toured the West Indies in January 1948, Evans as first choice keeper played all four Tests scoring 128 runs at 18.28 and claiming seven victims.
During the 1948 Ashes Evans was once again an ever-present, scoring 188 runs at 26.85 and taking 12 dismissals.
Evans score of 104 contained 17 fours with Wisden commenting that he "neglected no opportunity to hit hard".
On this tour he proved that he is the outstanding keeper in the world today.
Evans is now the world best.
That's the way things go and the way we Australians are supposed to like it.
He simply cannot stand still whilst on the cricket field.
The end of series report in Wisden commented that: "Evans did not miss one Test catch, but he caught some which became chances only through lightning mental reaction plus acrobatic agility" commenting on his batting added: "Evans played one praiseworthy innings in the second Test but in others inability to curb his natural ebullience caused him to do less than justice to his talents."
Batting at his best Evans would play India the following year, as he returned to the Test team for the home series between the two countries.
England won the match by seven wickets after India collapsed to 0/4 in their second innings.
Again he demonstrated his quick scoring abilities with an innings of 71 in 78 minutes, the other England batsman were more cautious and the total progressed by only 84 while Evans was batting.
England dismissed India for 58 and 82 to win the match and the series.
In England's innings he scored eight runs batting at eight, as England totalled 144.
The match was drawn after rain heavily disrupted the final two days.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
This list may not reflect recent changes .
Over the next few years, he cemented his position in the Warriors middle order, averaging over 35 in first class cricket in 2004–05 and 2005–06.
Partway through the 2007–08 seasoswerved in from round the stumps and skidded on to collect the edge from an attempted cut.
In contrast Bangalore slipped on the little things that matter on this stage.
In the Powerplay, there were three instances of fielders succumbing to adrenalin rushes and indulging in needless throws; one, from Saurabh Tiwary, even went to the boundary.
It was that kind of day.
Things just didn't go right for Bangalore and everything went according to script for Chennai.
A left-arm quick bowler, he was called up to India 's One Day International squad for the series against England in October 2011.
In the 2011 Champions League Twenty20 he played in six matches as his team, the Royal Challengers, made it to the final, losing to the Mumbai Indians .
The village of McLeodGanj, lying in the upper reaches, is known worldwide for the presence of the Dalai Lama .
On 29 April 1959, the 14th Dalai Lama  was moved to Dharamshala.
Dharamshala is the centre of the Tibetan exile world in India.
Following the 1959 Tibetan uprising there was an influx of Tibetan refugees who followed the 14th Dalai Lama.
One of the main attractions of Dharamshala is Triund hill.
Jewel of Dharamshala, Triund is one day trek at the upper reaches of McLeodGanj, about 9 km from McLeodGanj.
A loose translation into English would be 'spiritual dwelling' or, more loosely, 'sanctuary'.
When the first permanent settlement was created in the place now called Dharamshala, there was one such pilgrims' rest house on the site, and the settlement took its name from that dharamshala.
Before the Raj From the earliest times until the British Raj, Dharamshala and its surrounding area was ruled by the Katoch Dynasty of Kangra .
The Katoch Dynasty is said to be the oldest serving Royal Family in the world.
Due to the lack of permanent settlements in the area, some Gaddis lost their seasonal pastures and farmland when the British and the Gurkhas arrived to settle.
Settlement by the British and the Gurkhas In 1848, the area now known as Dharamshala was annexed by the British.
The Gurkhas worshipped at the ancient Shiva temple of Bhagsunag .
The Gurkhas referred to Dharamshala as 'Bhagsu' and referred to themselves as Bhagsuwalas.
The Gurkha cantonment then reached its zenith during World War II, when battalions from Dharamshala made history.
Many place names in the town still retain their former cantonment terminologies: Depot Bazaar, Pensioners' Lines, Tirah Lines .
Australia, after winning the toss for the fifth time in the series, chose to bat first and scored 275, Evans taking four catches.
He missed the first Test, after failing to recover from sunstroke.
In the four Tests he played Evans scored 102 runs and took 13 catches.
Evans played the first three matches before an injury forced him to miss the final two.
England won the first Test at Trent Bridge by an innings; Evans contributed 12 runs in England's innings and took two catches, the second was his 150th Test dismissal.
Australia toured in 1956 and Evans was an ever present in the England side who won the Test series 2–1.
England toured South Africa in 1956/57 .
England dominated, winning 3–0  and they were best placed in the two drawn matches.
England went into the series as favourites, having won the previous three Ashes series, but lost convincingly 4–0.
They were educated at Maybury Junior School and then Monument Hill Central School in Woking.
Over the next decade, the twin brothers played cricket together for Monument Hill School and Woking Cricket Club.
They also both played football for Monument Hill School, both as full backs .
After leaving school, Eric and Alec became clerks at the same firm of solicitors in Lincoln's Inn Fields .
They made their first-class débuts for Surrey against Oxford University in June 1939.
Their cricket careers were soon interrupted by the outbreak of the Second World War.
They were demobilised in 1946.
Alec Bedser founded England's eventual success.
A great bowler, and an example to all who aspire to cricketing fame.
The schoolboys who cheered him, and the elderly folk who applauded politely, all realised one thing.
In Alec Bedser England had the best bowler Australia had seen for years, and friend and foe alike admitted the fact.
Meanwhile, his brother Eric became an all-rounder in the Surrey team, concentrating on his batting as the team also included spinners such as Jim Laker and Tony Lock .
The two were difficult to tell apart, both 6'3" tall and just over 15 stone.
In 1953 at 35, an age by which many fast bowlers have retired from first-class cricket, Bedser demonstrated his longevity by helping England regain the Ashes.
He took 39 wickets at an average of 17.48 at home to Australia, including career-best match figures of 14 for 99 in the Nottingham Test.
Altogether, the 1905 Kangra earthquake killed 20,000 people.
"1,625 persons perished at Dharamsāla alone, including 15 Europeans and 112 of the Gurkha garrison."."
The Gurkhas rebuilt the town along with the temple, which today is acknowledged as the 1st Gurkha Rifles' heritage.
The British had planned to make Dharamshala the summer capital of India, but moved to Shimla after the disaster.
He is acknowledged so by the Netaji Research Bureau, Kolkata.
The important contribution of the noted Gurkha social commentator, the late Master Mitrasen Thapa, from the village of Totarani, has been acknowledged by the Himachal Pradesh government.
Library of Tibetan Works and Archives In 1970, The Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, opened the Library of Tibetan Works and Archives which houses over 80,000 manuscripts and other important resources related to Tibetan history, politics and culture.
It is considered one of the most important institutions for Tibetology in the world, the new director is Geshe Lahkdor, the old translator of H.H. the Dalai Lama.
Several thousand Tibetan exiles have now settled in the area, and most live in and around McLeodGanj in Upper Dharamshala, where they have built monasteries, temples and schools.
McLeodGanj is sometimes known as 'Little Lhasa ", after the Tibetan capital city, or 'Dhasa' .
It has become an important tourist destination with many hotels and restaurants, leading to growth in tourism and commerce.
Dharamshala is the winter capital of Himachal Pradesh.
Thus, if the goal of the transcription is phonetic accord with modern spoken Hindi, then 'dharam' and 'dharm' are both legitimate options.
Thus शाला is transcribed in English as 'shala'.
Therefore, the most accurate phonetic transcription of the Hindi धर्मशाला into Roman script for common  English usage is either 'Dharamshala' or, less commonly, 'Dharmshala', Regardless of spelling variations, the correct native pronunciation is with the sh sound .
In actual practice, the spelling variant that is most common and most concordant with standards of transcription and native pronunciation is 'Dharamshala'.
The official Indian English spelling is 'Dharamshala'.
Males constitute 55% of the population and females 45%.
Dharamshala has an average literacy rate of 77%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 80% and, female literacy is 73%.
This remained so until the group game against West Indies, which Raina played in place of an injured Virender Sehwag.
He also took Younis Khan's catch off of Yuvraj's bowling.
Gary Kirsten, the then coach of India, said 'Raina won the World Cup for us with some crucial knocks'.
Captaincy and 2011 West Indies tour India toured West Indies after the World Cup with captain MS Dhoni rested and vice captain Virender Sehwag injured.
Gautam Gambhir was named captain for the One dayers and T20's with Raina as his deputy.
But due to injury Gambhir was ruled out, with Raina captaining with Harbhajan as his deputy.
India won the series, but Raina averaged just 16.4.
In the Test matches he scored 232 runs at the average of 46.4 scoring crucial fifties in each Test.
His captaincy was highly appreciated by former west-Indian legends.
England Raina was selected for the England tour in July.
They eventually won the match by 21 runs on 21 July 2012.
Australia Suresh has been included into India's test squad after almost two years.
Raina was selected in the final Test match at Sydney, under the captaincy of Virat Kohli.
The name "Colombo", first introduced by the Portuguese in 1505, is believed to be derived from the classical Sinhalese name කොලොන් තොට Kolon thota, meaning "port on the river Kelani ".
Another belief is that the name is derived from the Sinhalese name කොල-අඹ-තොට Kola-amba-thota which means "Harbour with leafy mango trees".
It lists naramba  as belonging to an indigenous source .
Kolamba may also be the source of the name of the commercial capital Colombo.
Traveller Ibn Batuta who visited the island in the 14th century, referred to it as Kalanpu.
The first ever mention of Sri Lanka is seen in the great Indian epics Ramayana and Mahabharat .
The ancient city of Lankapura is thought to have been burnt down by Lord Hanuman.
After the King Ravana was killed by Rama with the help of the former's brother Vibhishana, Vibhishana was crowned King of Lankapura.
The mythological Lankapuri or lanka is identified today as Sri Lanka.
From him, Rakshasa Ravana, took the rulership of Lanka.
Rama killed Ravana and installed his brother Vibhishana on the throne of Lanka.
According to both the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, the Yaksha king Vaisravana alias Kubera was the ruler of Lanka.
His capital was guarded by Rakshasas.
His half-brother Ravana  fought with Kubera in battle and obtained the sovereignty of Lanka from him.
Ravana ruled Lanka as the king of Rakshasas.
He was highly sought after for the Big Bash League due to being regarded as one of the top domestic Twenty20 players in the world.
He ultimately chose to stay in WA and play for the Perth Scorchers.
A frank discussion with former teammate and new Western Australian coach Justin Langer helped Marsh regain his confidence and eventually his place in the state team:He laid down the laws for me.
The bars show the runs scored in each innings .
The red line shows the career batting average after each innings.
Australia went on to win the match by 46 runs, and Marsh was named Player of the Match.
In July 2011, Marsh was selected for the Australian Test Squad for the tour to Sri Lanka and was presented with the baggy green by his father.
Can't get enough on it, and Rohit Sharma on the boundary takes it.
Uthappa could not time it well, and it seemed like he would hence be safe, since this was set to land some ten metres in front of long on.
Try telling Pollard that.
He runs forward and to his left, swoops in and plucks it when he is horizontal, inches off the ground.
And then has the presence of mind to ensure he gets the hand under the ball when he lands.
And then he gets up on his knees, puts his arms wide and stands like Flintoff as his team-mates charge in.
Chennai had the tournament's leading wicket-taker Dwayne Bravo in their ranks The toss was won by Chennai who chose to bowl first.
Their captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni described the pitch as being dry and predicted it would stay the same throughout the match.
Both teams were unchanged from their respective previous matches.
The team batting second in the main match will bat first in the Super Over.
The bowler of the batting team can not both bat and bowl in the same super over Each side has three nominated batsmen, meaning that the loss of two wickets ends the Super Over.
The team with the most number of boundaries combined from the main match and the Super Over is the winner.
The team with the most number of boundaries from the main match  is the winner.
A count-back from the final ball of the Super Over shall be conducted.
The team with the higher scoring delivery is the winner.
Runs scored from illegal deliveries count towards the total for the following legal delivery.
The match was won by the Rajasthan Royals as they had hit more sixes during the main match.
Chris Gayle scored 25 runs in the first Super Over The first implementation of Super Overs was in the tied Twenty20 match between the West Indies and New Zealand on 26 December 2008.
West Indies scored 25/1 in their super over and New Zealand replied with 15/2.
The 26 December 2008 Twenty20 match between New Zealand and the West Indies was tied after each sides' 20 overs.
Daniel Vettori was the "nominated bowler" for New Zealand.
Chris Gayle and Xavier Marshall opened the "mini-innings.
Sulieman Benn was the nominated bowler for the West Indies.
NZ opener Jacob Oram was caught on Benn's third "super over" delivery.
The West Indies thus won the Super Over.
Steve Waugh was appointed as Taylor's replacement, while Warne was promoted to the position of vice-captain.
Australia were seeking to win their first World Cup since 1987.
After his World Cup performances, Warne was retained as Australia's vice-captain for the tours of Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe later in 1999.
Warne joined English county side Hampshire in 2000 and played for them during the year's English summer.
In August 2000, the Australian Cricket Board removed him as Australia's vice-captain, citing his history of indiscretions off the field.
The Board's decision was contrary to the wishes of the team's selectors, including captain Steve Waugh .
Warne was replaced as vice-captain by Adam Gilchrist .
In the 2001–02 Australian summer, Australia played home series against New Zealand and against South Africa .
Warne took six wickets in three Tests against New Zealand, and in the third Test in Perth made his highest career score with the bat in international cricket.
Warne, who had lost weight over the previous months, took 27 wickets, was named the player of the series, and was man of the match in the first Test .
At the time, Warne took the view that the ban imposed would lengthen his Test playing career.
Return to cricket Warne returned to competitive cricket following his ban in February 2004.
Warne shared player of the series honour with England's Andrew Flintoff .
However, his second innings performance, including bowling Kevin Pietersen around the legs, triggered England's fifth-day collapse and Australia's victory.
Warne again bowled well in the second innings in the third Test, and took the final wicket of Monty Panesar as Australia regained the Ashes.
He became the first cricketer to reach the 700-wicket milestone in his second last Test, on Boxing Day 2006.
Warne said that it was his intention to "go out on top", adding that he might have retired after the 2005 Ashes series, had Australia won.
Warne achieved his 700th test wicket at 3.18 pm on 26 December 2006 Warne's final Test was held at the same venue as his first, 15 years earlier: the Sydney Cricket Ground .
He was recalled for one Test against South Africa in 1955.
He was England's post-war bowling spearhead.
His entire first-class career spanned 485 matches, in which he helped Surrey to eight County Championships between 1950 and 1958.
Bedser occasionally captained the side in place of Stuart Surridge or Peter May .
Bedser retired from cricket in 1960, and his brother Eric retired in 1962.
After retiring from playing cricket, Bedser went into business with his brother.
He was on the board of selectors who controversially left Basil d'Oliveira out of the England team for 1968's tour of South Africa.
He was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire  England bowler to be knighted for services to cricket .
They lived together in Woking until Eric's death in 2006.
Sir Alec Bedser died in hospital in Woking  For three months following the death of Arthur McIntyre on 26 December 2009, Bedser was the oldest surviving England Test cricketer.
On Bedser's death, that distinction passed to Reg Simpson .
He was appointed as the interim cricket coach of Malaysia on the 17th of May 2008.
Once in the national side, he sometimes threw his wicket away due to poor shot-selection and was suspect to the swinging delivery.
However, he relished pace and would often be quick to put away any delivery off line or length.
This new strategy of attacking from the outset heavily contributed to Sri Lanka to win all their matches and secure the 1996 Cricket World Cup as all other teams were not prepared for such an attack.
Kaluwitharana was the wicket keeper and opener with Jayasuriya in that world cup series that was captained by Arjuna Ranatunga .
The two of them revolutionized the one day game and their tactics are now commonly used by limited overs openers.
The two were commonly known as Little Dynamite and Master Blaster by commentators due to the fast attacking batting display where the fielding team has been devastated.
Kalu was also admired by the critics due to unorthodox wicket-keeping display which given him lot of stumpings at that time.
Concerning the newspaper's website smh.com.au,
Alexa and SimilarWeb rate the site as the 17th and 32nd most visited website in Australia respectively, as of July 2015.
In 1840, the newspaper began to publish daily.
In 1841, an Englishman named John Fairfax purchased the operation, renaming it The Sydney Morning Herald the following year.
Fairfax, whose family were to control the newspaper for almost 150 years, based his editorial policies "upon principles of candour, honesty and honour.
We have no wish to mislead; no interest to gratify by unsparing abuse or indiscriminate approbation."During
Donald Murray worked there.
The Kingdom was bounded on the north by Kangra and Chamba, on the south by the Punjab plains, and on the west by the Ravi river.
The Capital was at Pathankot, which was known as Paithan in the medieval times.
Throughout their history the Pathania clan rebelled against the foreign invaders.
Yet, they repeatedly rebelled against the Mughal's and other foreign invaders.
He was deported to Rangoon where he died in prison.
Raja Jagat Singh Pathania  came under the reign of Raja Jagat Singh.
Raja Jagat Singh ruled until 1644 and during his reign rendered assistance to Mughal forces in Qandhar, Kabul.
After the independence of India, Pathankot, has developed as an important town in many aspects.
The strategic point of location has prompted the establishment of the army and for the air force station for the defence of India.
The Indian army and Indian air force has successful defended the territory of India in times of war.
Traders supplying the army needs have also increased their business.
Most of them started trades of different kinds and many those businesses have grown into large business houses.
Pathankot has an average elevation of 332 metres .
Spring: The climate remains the most enjoyable part of the year during the spring season  9 °C to 18 °C.
Temperatures usually remain between 16° to 27° in autumn.
The minimum temperature is around 11 °C.
Monsoon: During monsoon but it generally receives most of its rain during monsoon either from North-west or North-east.
Pathankot experienced snowfall in 2012 after almost 55 years.
During the 2008 Summer season Albie played for Durham County Cricket Club in the North East of England along with fellow South African Shaun Pollock mainly in the Twenty20 Cup competition.
He was dropped from the National team to the tour of Windies to open door for Dave Miller and others .
In 2012, Morkel was confirmed as Somerset 's second overseas player alongside Chris Gayle .
He joined Derbyshire in 2013 as an overseas player for their Friends Life t20 campaign.
His statistics on his international debut tour to New Zealand were not very impressive, as he got two wickets at the cost of 48 runs apiece, but he did get five wickets quite cheaply on Zimbabwe 's tour of South Africa.
In 2009 he secured two-man-of-the-match accolades against Australia in the Commonwealth Series down under, as well as the Man of the Series accolade for the One Day Internationals.
He was promoted to the Test side for the third Test of the home series against Australia in 2008/09, ironically replacing his brother Morné in the side.
He is one of the regular names in the overseas four of the playing XI.
Morkel's big-hitting abilities and consistent bowling performances has been one of the key reasons of the Super Kings' successful run in the Indian Premier League .
Morkel was retained by Chennai for the fourth edition of the Indian Premier League .
He was purchased by the Royal Challengers Bangalore for ₹2,40,00,000 ahead of the 2014 season.
He was purchased by the Delhi Daredevils for ₹30,00,000 ahead of the 2015 season.
Albie hails from an Afrikaner family, who are big cricket fans.
Albie was born to Albert and Mariana Morkel as the second of three children; Morné is the youngest; his older brother, Malan also played cricket.
Albie is married to his childhood crush, Marthmari .
However, he was disappointing with the ball, taking just one wicket.
He made just eight in the second innings as England collapsed to post just 123.
Moeen took 1-54 in the second innings as the West Indies won to level the series at 1-1.  1-1.In the first Test Moeen scored 58 in England first innings to help them fight back to post 389.
He then took three wickets in New Zealand's innings.
In the second Test Moeen was less impressive.
Ali was selected in the England side for the Ashes.
In the first Test he scored 77 in England's first innings before taking two Australian first innings wickets.
He then took 3-59 in Australia's second innings as England secured an opening win.
Ali could only manage figures of 1-138 in Australia's first innings of the second Test and then managed 39 with the bat.
In Australia's first innings of the final Test he took 3-102 and then made scores of 30 and 35 and England lost by an innings but won the series 3-2.
His form against the touring England in 2005 made him one of the most important players in the team.
Coming in lower down the order in Test matches, he played one memorable innings.
Since his tour of England in Summer 2006 however his batting form dwindled and steadily become worse.
He then scored an international hundred in the Bangladeshi tour of Pakistan in 2008.
He later moved to have some injuries and did not play for some days but later he was again brought into the team.
He was replaced by Sarfraz Ahmed who performed very well at the domestic level and also because of Sarfraz's strong showing in the U-19 World Cup.
Akmal was part of the Pakistan team that won the T20 World Cup in 2009 .
On 12 November 2008, Akmal hit two consecutive 6s in the last over.
On 17 July 2010, Akmal was appointed the vice-captain of the Pakistani test squad but later removed because of his alleged involvement in spot fixing.
Pakistan eventually went on to lose the match by 36 runs, after being dismissed for just 139 in the second innings.
In early September 2010, the International Cricket Council  sent an official notice to Kamran Akmal telling him that he is under investigation for allegedly fixing the Sydney Test.
Kamran Akmal has been constantly criticized for his lack of consistent wicket-keeping.
After another horrendous series behind the stumps against Sri Lanka in January 2009, journalists and former players called for his removal from the national team.
He married in 2006 and lives with his wife, Aaiza, and their daughter, Laiba.
He played five matches in the tournament, as wicket-keeper and top-order batsman, including the final of the tournament against the Chennai Super Kings .
He took two catches in the first innings, however he was run out for six runs during the Royal's chase.
PTs are Rehabilitation professionals who diagnose and treat individuals of all ages, from newborns to the very oldest, who have medical or surgical problems or other health-related conditions, illnesses, or injuries that limit their abilities to move and perform functional activities as well as they would like in their daily lives.
PT management commonly includes prescription of or assistance with specific exercises, manual therapy and manipulation, mechanical devices such as traction, education, physical agents which includes heat, cold, electricity, sound waves, radiation, rays, prescription of assistive devices, prostheses, orthoses and other interventions.
In addition, PTs work with individuals to prevent the loss of mobility before it occurs by developing fitness and wellness-oriented programs for healthier and more active lifestyles, providing services to individuals and populations to develop, maintain and restore maximum movement and functional ability throughout the lifespan.
This includes providing therapeutic treatment in circumstances where movement and function are threatened by aging, injury, disease or environmental factors.
Functional movement is central to what it means to be healthy .
The span of education ranges from some countries having little formal education to others having doctoral degrees and post doctoral residencies and fellowships.
Please improve this article and discuss the issue on the talk page .
Soon following American orthopedic surgeons began treating children with disabilities and began employing women trained in physical education, and remedial exercise.
These treatments were applied and promoted further during the Polio outbreak of 1916.
During the First World War women were recruited to work with and restore physical function to injured soldiers, and the field of physical therapy was institutionalized.
In 1918 the term "Reconstruction Aide" was used to refer to individuals practicing physical therapy.
The first school of physical therapy was established at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington, D.C., following the outbreak of World War I.
Prior to marriage, he used to live with his brother Morné and team mate AB de Villiers in Pretoria .
Mandeep Singh  is an Indian cricketer.
On 18 July 2012 he was included in 30 probables for the World T20 tournament to be played in Sri Lanka in September 2012.
Mandeep Singh's father is an athletics coach in Jalandhar.
He was initially not happy with his sons cricketing ambition but was later satisfied when saw his son's cricketing potential.he
The epic battles described in the Mahabharata are described as being fought in what is now the present-day State of Haryana and historic Punjab.
The Sultan then led his troops to conquer the Sindh and Punjab regions for the Islamic Umayyad Caliphate .
Qasim was the first to bring Islam to the region.
A section of the Lahore Fort built by the Mughal emperor Akbar .
During the establishment and consolidation of the Muslim Turkic Mughal Empire prosperity, growth, and relative peace were established.
Muslim empires ruled the Punjab for approximately 1000 years.
In 1758, Punjab came under the rule of Marathas who captured the region by defeating Afghan forces of Ahmad Shah Abdali .
Abdali's Indian invasion weakened the Maratha influence, but he could not defeat the Sikhs .
After the death of Ahmad Shah, the Punjab was freed from the Afghan yoke by Sikhs between 1773 and 1818.
Out of the 36 areas, 22 were united by Maharaja Ranjit Singh .
The other 14 accepted British sovereignty .
After Ranjit Singh's death, assassinations and internal divisions severely weakened the empire.
At the time of partition in 1947, the province was split into East and West Punjab.
East Punjab  became part of Pakistan.
The Punjab bore the brunt of the civil unrest following the British Raj, with casualties estimated to be in millions.
It could be divided into four natural areas: the eastern mountainous region including Jammu Division ;the central plain with its five rivers;the north-western region, separated from the central plain by the Salt Range between the Jhelum and the Indus rivers;the semi-desert to the south of the Sutlej river.
The plates are still moving together, and the Himalayas are rising by about 5mm per year.
The upper regions are snow-covered the whole year.
Lower ranges of hills run parallel to the mountains.
The mountains are relatively young, and are eroding rapidly.
The Indus and the five rivers of the Punjab have their sources in the mountain range and carry loam, minerals and silt down to the rich alluvial plains, which consequently are very fertile.
There are three main seasons and two transitional periods.
During the Hot Season, from about mid April to the end of June, the temperature may reach 49˚C.
The transitional period after the monsoon is cool and m, doing so from 15 April 1944.
Of the country's metropolitan dailies, only The West Australian was later in making the switch.
Four years later, this was merged with the newly acquired Sun newspaper to create The Sun-Herald, which continues to this day.
In 1995, the company launched smh.com.au
The site has since grown to include interactive and multimedia features beyond the content in the print edition.
During the 2004 Australian federal election the Herald announced it would "no longer endorse one party or another at election time".
The newspaper has in recent years attempted to spearhead political campaigns, including the "Campaign for Sydney .
Very close to the batsman, so-called because of the perceived danger of doing so.
Somewhere along an imaginary extension of the popping crease .
Further from an extension of an imaginary line along the middle of the pitch bisecting the stumps.
In front of square; further towards the end occupied by the bowler and further away from the end occupied by the batsman on strike.
Behind square; further towards the end occupied by the batsman on strike and further away from the end occupied by the bowler.
" .Restrictions on field placement Fielders may be placed anywhere on the field, subject to the following rules.
At the time the ball is bowled:No fielder may be standing on or with any part of his body over the pitch  at the ball.
There may be no more than two fielders, other than the wicket-keeper, standing in the quadrant of the field behind square leg.
See Bodyline for details on one reason this rule exists.
During designated overs of an innings  in designated "close catching" positions.
For the remainder of the innings there may be no more than four fielders standing outside the fielding circle.
The restriction for one-day cricket is designed to prevent the fielding team from setting extremely defensive fields and concentrating solely on preventing the batting team from scoring runs.
If this happens, an umpire will call and signal 'dead ball'.
For close fielders anything other than minor adjustments to stance or position in relation to the striker is significant.
In the outfield, fielders may move in towards the striker or striker's wicket; indeed, they usually do.
However, anything other than slight movement off line or away from the striker is to be considered significant.
The placement of fielders is one of the major tactical considerations for the fielding captain.
This generally involves having many fielders far from the batsman and in front of him, in the positions where he is most likely to hit the ball.
While doing so, they are more likely to make mistakes.
A team's best bowlers tend to deliver the most difficult balls to hit, so they get the most benefit from the support of an attacking field.
All three situations can lead to catches flying to close attacking fielders.
If the batting team is doing poorly or has low morale, increase the pressure by attacking with the field.
If the batsmen are managing to score runs quickly, it is unlikely they are offering many chances to get them out, so reduce the run scoring rate.
If there is no movement of the ball and the batsmen can hit it comfortably every time, there is little point in having lots of close catching fielders.
With nine fielders to place, the division must necessarily be unequal, but the degree of inequality varies.
Usually, most fielders are placed on the off side.
As fields get progressively more defensive, fielders will move out of the slip and gully area to cover more of the field, leading to 6–3 and 5–4 fields.
The batsman can back away to the leg side to hit through the off side, but can expose their stumps in doing so.
The reverse tactic can be used, by fast and slow bowlers alike, by placing seven or eight fielders on the off side and bowling far outside off stump.
The batsman can safely allow the ball to pass without fear of it hitting the stumps, but will not score.
Another attacking placement on the leg side is the leg side trap, which involves placing fielders near the boundary at deep square and backward square leg and bowling bouncers to try to induce the batsman to hook the ball into the air.
For slower bowlers, the leg trap fieldsmen tend to be placed within 10–15 m from the bat behind square, to catch leg glances and sweeps.
This section does not cite any references  .
Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources .
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Both are wearing helmets.
The wicket-keeper's shin pads are on the outside of his trousers, but the fielders must fit their guards underneath their clothing.
No member of the fielding side other than the wicket-keeper may wear gloves or external leg guards, though fielders  and chest protectors beneath their clothing.
Apart from the wicket-keeper, protection for the hand or fingers may be worn only with the consent of the umpires.
Due to the discomfort and risk of being hit, the duty of fielding "under the helmet" or "under the lid" is often delegated to the most junior member of the team.
If the helmet is only being used for overs from one end, it will be placed behind the wicketkeeper when not in use.
As cricket balls are hard and can travel at high speeds off the bat, protective equipment is recommended to prevent injury.
Rakshasas, viz Ravana, with his brother Kumbhakarna, and sons and kindred, Rama installed in the kingdom of Lanka the Rakshasa chief, Vibhishana, pious, and reverent, and kind to devoted dependents.
Portuguese explorers led by Dom Lourenço de Almeida first arrived in Sri Lanka in 1505.
The Portuguese soon realized that control of Sri Lanka was necessary for protection of their coastal establishments in India and they began to manipulate the rulers of the Kotte kingdom to gain control of the area.
This part of Colombo is still known as Fort and houses the presidential palace and the majority of Colombo's five star hotels.
The Portuguese resisted the Dutch and the Kandyans but were gradually defeated in their strongholds beginning in 1639.
Then, in 1833, the Government Agent of the Western Province was charged with the administration of the city.
The Legislative Council of Ceylon constituted the Colombo Municipal Council in 1865 and the Council met for the first time on the January 16, 1866.
At the time, the population of the region was around 80,000.
During the time they were in control of the Colombo, the British were responsible for much of the planning of the present city.
In some parts of the city tram car tracks and granite flooring laid during the era are still visible today.
The formal ceremony marking the start of self-rule at Independence Square .
This era of colonialism ended peacefully in 1948 when Ceylon gained independence from Britain.
At present, it refers to the city limits of the Colombo Municipal Council .
Although Colombo lost its status as the capital of Sri Lanka in the 1980s, it continues to be the island's commercial centre.
Despite the official capital of Sri Lanka moving to the adjacent Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte, most countries still maintain their diplomatic missions in Colombo.
The city has many canals and, in the heart of the city, the 65-hectare  which means river delta .
Colombo's climate is fairly temperate all throughout the year.
Therefore, football games were often played in the parklands next to the cricket ground, and this was the case for the first documented football match to be played at the ground.
Two night matches were played on the ground during the year under the newly invented electric light .
Melbourne used the venue as its training base until 1984, before being required to move to preserve the venue's surface when North Melbourne began playing there.
Before the ground was fully seated, the Grand Final could draw attendances above 110,000.
Both needed the other, but resented the dependence.
Aylett said he wanted the Melbourne Cricket Club’s share of revenue cut from 15 per cent to 10 per cent.
The money was held aside until an agreement could be reached.
In 1983 John Lill was appointed secretary and Don Cordner its president.
Shortly after the Southern Stand opened in 1992, the Australian Football League moved its headquarters into the complex.
Another 45 days of cricket are also played there each year and more than 3.5 million spectators come to watch every year.
Bell was eventually dismissed for 159.
England continued to bat strongly with tail-ender Tim Bresnan getting 90 runs.
India's response to this target was poor and they slumped to 68/6 at tea on day 4. England dismissed India's top second innings scorer, Sachin Tendulkar for 56 soon after tea.
England wrapped the game up in the evening session, finally dismissing India for 158 runs, winning by 319 runs.
Since its independence in 1947, India has maintained cordial relations with most nations.
In recent years, it has played key roles in the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation and the World Trade Organisation .
The nation has provided 100,000 military and police personnel to serve in 35 UN peacekeeping operations across four continents.
The President of India is the supreme commander of the nation's armed forces; with 1.325 million active troops, they compose the world's third-largest military .
Kollam is known as the Cashew Capital of the World.
However, it is higher than Pakistan, Nepal, Afghanistan, Bangladesh and others.
More than 95% of retail industry in India is unorganised.
The Indian pharmaceutical market is expected to reach $48.5 billion by 2020.
Despite impressive economic growth during recent decades, India continues to face socio-economic challenges.
The already densely settled Indo-Gangetic Plain is the main driver of Indian population growth.
Other languages spoken in India come from the Austroasiatic and Sino-Tibetan language families.
India has no national language.
A Kuchipudi dance performance is accompanied by Carnatic vocalisations.
Indian music ranges over various traditions and regional styles.
Classical music encompasses two genres and their various folk offshoots: the northern Hindustani and southern Carnatic schools.
The Indian film industry produces the world's most-watched cinema.
Top: Roti bread and sabzi vegetable stew are cooked outdoors in the Thar Desert using traditional Rajasthani methods.
Traditional Indian society is sometimes defined by social hierarchy.
The Indian caste system embodies much of the social stratification and many of the social restrictions found in the Indian subcontinent.
The ball will often be hit at them extremely hard, and they require excellent athleticism as well as courage in stopping it from passing them.
Their main role is to prevent the ball from going over the boundary and scoring four or six runs.
Outfielders also often have to catch high hit balls that go over the infield.
Many cricketers are particularly adept in one fielding position and will usually be found there:Slips and bat pad require fast reactions, an ability to anticipate the trajectory of the ball as soon as it takes the edge, and intense concentration.
Pace bowlers will often be found fielding in the third man, fine leg and deep backward square positions during the overs between those they are bowling.
These positions mean that they are at the correct end for their bowling over.
They should see relatively little fielding action with plenty of time to react, allowing them to rest between overs.
They also usually have an ability to throw the ball long distances accurately.
Players noted for their agility, acceleration, ground diving and throwing accuracy will often field in the infield positions such as point, cover and mid-wicket.
This even applies to wicket keepers, who are generally expected to be competent middle-order batsmen.
Wisden describes how the record was set around 1882, by one Robert Percival at Durham Sands Racecourse, at 140 yards and two feet  in Cape Town in 1981.
The most well known specialist fielding coaches currently working in cricket are:A delivery in which the ball spins towards the batsman to produce dip and bounce.
A delivery in which the ball spins away from the batsmen, scrambed seam.
A delivery in which the ball spins away from the batsmen, seam upright to produce swing.
The primary reason for that is that the pitches in the sub-continent provide more help to the spin bowlers.
The faster the pitch degenerates, the earlier the spinners come into the picture.
Australian and South African pitches are usually very hard and bouncy, helping the fast bowlers more.
They do not break up very much during the duration of the match.
In contrast, pitches in the sub-continent are not that hard.
They are not usually held together by the grass as much; hence they break up more quickly and help spin bowlers.
In general, leg spin is considered to be one of the toughest types of bowling in which to keep control of the ball, but it is very effective in picking off wickets.
All these are arts to deceive the batsman and require lots of practice.
The basic trajectory of spin bowling is two-lines-at-an-angle, but the above characteristics  modify this 'normal' trajectory into more complex shapes.
Turn: How much the ball turns after pitching .
It depends on the number and direction of revolutions of the ball.
The movement and rotation of the ball varies, depending on the position of the wrist and the finger.
An occasional unexpected straight ball can usefully be included in an attack, but spin variation is the main technique used to deceive the batsman and take wickets.
Drift: Getting the ball to move sideways while in air.
Late drift causes the batsman to cover the wrong line and the ball may catch the edge of the bat.
Late dip causes the batsman to misjudge the length of the ball.
A slow ball with extra flight may deceive the batsman into thinking it is slower than it is and therefore mistiming his shot.
This is very effective for offspinners.
He also owned an agricultural estate at Stoke Edith in Herefordshire.
He became involved with the club in the 1880s and helped to establish the Minor Counties Championship which began in 1895.
Worcestershire shared the inaugural title with Durham and Norfolk before winning outright in 1896, 1897 and 1898.
With this success behind it, the club applied for first-class status and entered the County Championship in 1899.
The inclusion of Worcestershire increased the County Championship to 15 teams.
Weak bowling on perfect New Road pitches was responsible for this, but in 1907 when Tip Foster played regularly for three months their batting, considering the difficulty of the pitches, was among the finest of any county team.
After that year, however, the batting was never strong enough to make up for woefully weak bowling.
Their form, with one remarkable exception, was woeful up to the early thirties.
The emergence of Dick Howorth and Reg Perks in the 1930s, however, was built up so well that by 1947 Worcestershire were sufficiently strong in bowling to be competitive at county level even if their batting was not adequate for high honours.
Worcestershire also won the Sunday League in 1987 and 1988.
Captained by Phil Neale, the Pears beat Lancashire by 65 runs in the final at Lord's, gaining revenge for defeat against Lancashire in the previous year's competition.
Not only did they avenge their defeat at the hands of Warwickshire in the B&H Cup Final earlier that summer but it was also their first success in the competition after three previous final defeats.
Worcestershire's best showing in the County Championship came in 1993 when they finished second to Middlesex.
Worcestershire finished 15th in 1999, the final year of single division County Championship cricket, meaning they would start the new millennium in Division Two.
Worcestershire failed to gain promotion in 2000, despite overseas signing Glenn McGrath taking 76 Championship wickets at an average of 13.77.
Worcestershire promoted back to Division One, despite losing their final game of the season.
The following season they avoided relegation for the first time ever, giving them consecutive seasons in Division One.
Royals in the Indian Premier League 2008, fetching US$450,000 in the pre-season player auction.
The Stars qualified for the semi-finals of the tournament, and Warne took seven wickets in eight matches at an economy rate of 6.74 runs conceded per over.
In July 2014, he captained the Rest of the World side in the Bicentenary Celebration match at Lord's .
For all his on-pitch and off-pitch controversies, Warne's place in cricketing posterity has been assured by the fact that he has overturned the domination of cricket by fast bowling that had prevailed for two decades before his debut.
Despite the presence of high quality spin bowlers such as the Indian spin quartet of the 1970s or Abdul Qadir on the Test scene, Australia's fast bowlers Dennis Lillee and Jeff Thomson had dominated cricket in the early 1970s.
In the early 1990s, with the West Indies on the wane, Waqar Younis and Wasim Akram of Pakistan were assuming the mantle of the world's most feared bowling combination.
It was in that context that Warne's tormenting of batsmen became so significant rather than his actual statistics.
Warne was instrumental in helping Australia win the 1999 Cricket World Cup in England.
His performances in the semifinal against South Africa and in the final against Pakistan helped him get Man of the Match Awards.
Warne is also noted for his exuberant .
Warne is also third overall in the most international test ducks.
Of players who have batted in more than 175 Test innings, his proportion of dismissals by being out bowled is the lowest, at under seven percent.
On 13 July 2005, Australia's Nine Network announced it would not renew Warne's commentating contract, worth around A$300,000 annually.
This matter was investigated by the British Advertising Standards Authority in relation to an illegal celebrity endorsement of medical services.
Warne has also endorsed the Codemaster video games Shane Warne Cricket and Shane Warne Cricket '99.
Outside Australia these were known as Brian Lara Cricket and Brian Lara Cricket '99.
This sponsorship agreement ended in January 2015.
Warne has three children—Brooke, Summer and Jackson—with his ex-wife Simone Callahan.
However, the woman who made the claims was subsequently charged with extortion in her own country.
Allegations of extramarital affairs broke in 2005 as Australia began its tour of England in preparation for The Ashes .
On 25 June 2005, Warne and his wife Simone Callahan announced that they had decided to separate.
Between 1983 and 1986, Modi studied Electrical Engineering and Business Administration in the United States.
He attended Pace University in New York for two years, and then Duke University in North Carolina for one year.
He didn't graduate from either of these institutions.
In 1986, Modi came back to Delhi, and joined the family business.
He served as the President of International Tobacco Company Limited from 1987 to 1991.
In Delhi, Modi started courting his mother's friend Minal Sagrani.
Modi managed to get his grandmother Dayawati Modi on his side, who convinced the family to agree to the marriage.
Lalit and Minal married on 17 October 1991 in Mumbai .
The couple settled in Mumbai, as Minal faced social boycott in Delhi.
They initially lived in KK Modi's apartment in Pedder Road area, but later bought Minal's father's house in Juhu as their family grew.
Later, Modi became the President and Managing Director of Modi Enterprises, an industrial conglomerate run by his family.
In 2002, Modi launched an online lottery business in Kerala called Sixo.
Modi then resolved to join the Board.
In 2003, Modi's friend Vasundhara Raje was elected as the Chief Minister of Rajasthan .
He didn't use his full name for the fear of being denied entry.
In 2005, Modi used his connections with Raje to get the Rajasthan Sports Act passed.
This ordinance took away voting rights from the 66 individual members, leaving only the 32 district associations as voters.
He continued to live in Mumbai, where his network had expanded to include leading industrialists and Bollywood stars.
When Surana and his friend Hemendra Suarana  arrived at the Stadium, Modi tore their tickets.
Ashok Gehlot of Congress, who succeeded Raje as the Chief Minister, accused Modi of acting as an "extra-constitutional authority" during his campaign.
After Raje was voted out of power, Modi's power in Rajasthan reduced considerably.
Indian National Congress leader and External Affairs minister Shashi Tharoor was involved in bringing together the various companies in this consortium.
Soon after his suspension, Modi moved to London, where his wife Minal's family lived.
In 2010, Modi claimed on Twitter that New Zealand cricketer Chris Cairns had been involved in match-fixing during 2008.
In March 2012, Cairns successfully sued Modi for making false statements and won $950,000 in damages.
In March 2014, Modi alleged that the International Cricket Council  had evidence regarding the existence of spot and match-fixing in the Champions League T20 cricket tournament and that world cricket's governing body was deliberately not making it public.
More catches are taken by wicket-keepers than by any other fielding position.
The more skilled the keeper, the faster the bowling to which he is able to "stand up", for instance Godfrey Evans often stood up to Alec Bedser .
However, the modern-day keeper is also expected to possess reasonable batting skill, suiting him for the middle order at least.
Wicket-keepers who are also capable of batting at the top of the order are known informally as keeper/batsmen.
They were never able to consistently choose between the two until 1998, when Russell began to fade: prior to that, they had regularly swapped the role, often with Stewart maintaining his place when not wicket-keeping thanks to his batting skill.
The keeper is the only fielder allowed to touch the ball with protective equipment, typically large padded gloves with webbing between the index finger and thumb, but no other webbing.
The protection offered by the gloves is not always adequate.
The England keeper Alan Knott sometimes placed steaks inside his gloves for added cushioning.
For example, during the England–New Zealand Test Match at Lord's in 1986, England's specialist keeper, Bruce French was injured during England's first innings.
In the second Test, however, both were relieved of their wicketkeeping duties, allowing Luke Ronchi to make his Test debut, having played many matches for both Australia and New Zealand.
Occasional wicket-keepers are players that usually play in other roles but sometimes keep wicket.
The following top 10 wicket-keepers for dismissals in Test cricket.
The batsman is standing at the centre point facing south.
The positions are mirrored for left-handers.
Front-foot shots are played with the weight on the front foot .
These "textbook" shots are standard material found in many coaching manuals.
Unorthodox shots are typically—but not always— more high-risk than orthodox shots due to some aspects of good batting technique being abandoned.
An ideal stance is "comfortable relaxed and balanced," with the feet 40 centimetres  apart, parallel and astride the crease.
Additionally, the front shoulder should be pointing down the wicket, the head facing the bowler, the weight equally balanced and the bat near the back toe.
By doing this he is ready to move swiftly into position to address the ball once he sees its path out of the bowler's hand.
Forward and back Depending upon the path of the ball, the batsman will either move forward or back in his attempt to intercept it.
The batsman will step forward towards the ball, bending his front knee in order to bring his bat down to the anticipated height of the ball.
By moving forwards, the batsman is also able to intercept the ball immediately after it has pitched, thus nullifying any potentially dangerous lateral movement.
The batsman will step back and, if necessary, stand on his tip toes to raise his bat to the height of the ball.
By stepping back towards the wicket, he also receives the advantage of having an extra small amount of time to react to any unexpected lateral movement or variation in bounce.
The famous 'back drive', made famous by Sir Donald Bradman.
Note the batsman's head focussed on where the ball had bounced.
The bat and hands are held well out of the way of the ball.
The batsman still has to watch the ball closely to ensure that it will not hit him or the wicket; he also has to ensure that his bat and hands are kept out of the path of the ball so that it cannot make accidental contact and possibly lead to him being out caught .
Vertical bat or straight-bat shots can be played either off the front foot or the back foot depending upon the anticipated height of the ball at the moment it reaches the batsman.
Vertical bat shots are typically played with the batsman's head directly above the point of contact so that he is able to accurately judge the line of the ball.
Pushing the ball is one of the more common ways batsmen manipulate the strike.
The stroke involves deflecting the bat-face towards the leg side at the last moment, head and body moving inside the line of the ball.
off the toes, shins or hip
It is played off the front foot if the ball is pitched up at the toes or shin of the batsman, or off the back foot if the ball bounces at waist/hip height to the batsman.
This would commonly be described instead as "running  the ball down to third man.
A drive can also be played towards midwicket, although the phrase "midwicket drive" is not in common usage.
Drives can be played both off the front and the back foot, but back-foot drives are harder to force through the line of the ball.
Virat Kohli playing the flick shot in 2015.
It is often also called the clip off the legs.
The shot is playing with the bat coming through straight as for the on drive, but the bat face is angled towards the leg side.
It can be played both off the front foot or the back foot, either off the toes or from the hips.
The shot is played between the mid on and square leg region.
Typically played along the ground, the flick can also be played by lofting the ball over the infield.
The second class of cricket stroke are the horizontal bat shots, also known as cross bat shots.
Note the balance and weight of the batsman is on his back  leg.
The batsman makes contact with the ball as it draws alongside or passes him and therefore requires virtually no effort on his part as he uses the bowler's pace to divert the ball.
Pull and hook shots can be played off front or back foot, with back foot being more typical.
Many unorthodox, typically high-risk, shots have been used throughout the history of the game.
The advent of limited overs cricket has seen the increased use of unorthodox shots to hit the ball into gaps where there are no fielders placed.
Unorthodox shots are rarely used in first-class cricket as the pace of the game is slower and it is relatively more important to keep one's wicket than to try to score runs off every ball.
A few unorthodox shots have gained enough popularity or notoriety to have been given their own names and entered common usage.
The batsman may also swap his hands on the bat handle to make the stroke easier to execute.
Cricket coach Bob Woolmer has been credited with popularising the stroke.
England subsequently lost momentum and eventually lost the match.
A slog can also be described as hitting the ball to "cow corner".
This phrase is designed to imply that the batsman is unsophisticated in his strokeplay and technique by suggesting he would be more at home playing on more rudimentary cricket fields in which there may be cows grazing along the boundary edge.
The slog can be an effective shot because all the batsman's power and body weight can be put into swinging the bat at the ball.
Slog sweeps are usually directed over square-leg rather than to mid-wicket.
It is almost exclusively used against reasonably full-pitched balls from slow bowlers, as only then does the batsman have time to sight the length and adopt the kneeling position required for the slog sweep.
Modi.
Only one vote in Modi's support was counted: five other votes were discarded as disputed.
Modi's supporters were denied entry into the meeting, on the ground that they were late by 10 minutes.
Pathan denied any role in the attack on Modi's supporters, and suggested that the attack was staged by them as an excuse for their pending defeat.
In March 2010, while Modi was in London, the Congress-led Indian Government revoked his passport.
The controversy resulting from these revealations was termed as "Modigate" by the Indian media.
In the post, he referred to Noble as his “brother”.
The incident caused significant media backlash within India as many began to raise questions about the connection between men with criminal reputations like Modi and international law enforcement.
Yet Noble, who served as the head of Interpol from 2000 to 2014, denied any knowledge of Modi's criminal activities despite evidence that Modi was on an Interpol watch list for some time.
Modi and James Noble would split the profits equally once the property was sold.
My brother has never had anything to do with Interpol and that Modi was never of interest to Interpol.
As of 2015, Lalit Modi has not been convicted of any charges as part of the ED investigation.
The other three criteria are based on the respect towards to the opposition, the laws of cricket and the umpires.
In the same year, the International Federation of Orthopaedic Manipulative Physical Therapists was formed,  which has ever since played an important role in advancing manual therapy worldwide.
Educational criteria for physical therapy providers vary from state to state and from country to country, and among various levels of professional responsibility.
Most U.S. states have physical therapy practice acts that recognize both physical therapists  or aides.
The primary physical therapy practitioner is the Physical Therapist  degree, The physical therapist professional curriculum is rigorous and includes content and learning experiences in the clinical sciences .
Examine patients/clients by performing systems reviews.
Examine patients/clients by selecting and administering culturally appropriate and age related tests and measures.
Tests and measures include, but are not limited to, those that assess: a. Aerobic Capacity/Endurance, b.
Anthropometric Characteristics, c. Arousal, Attention, and Cognition, d.
Assistive and Adaptive Devices, e. Circulation Evaluation: Evaluate data from the examination  to make clinical judgments regarding patients/clients.
Intervention:Provide physical therapy interventions to achieve patient/client goals and outcomes.
Interventions include: a. Therapeutic Exercise, b.
Electrotherapeutic Modalities,Provide effective culturally competent instruction to patients/clients and others to achieve goals and outcomes.
Prevention, Health Promotion, Fitness, and Wellness: Provide culturally competent physical therapy services for prevention, health promotion, fitness, and wellness to individuals, groups, and communities.
Apply principles of prevention to defined population groups.
Canadian Physiotherapy programs are offered at 15 Universities, often through the university's respective college of medicine.
In the past decade, each of Canada's physical therapy schools has transitioned from 3-year Bachelor of Science in Physical Therapy  programs that require pre-requisite bachelor's degrees.
Existing practitioners with BScPT credentials are not required to upgrade their qualifications.
The B.Sc. usually requires three years to complete.
Graduates who obtain their M.Sc.
Ordre professionnel de la physiothérapie du Québec .
Physiotherapists can pursue their education in such fields as rehabilitation sciences, sports medicine, kinesiology, and physiology.
However, research Master's of Science  programs are available at every university.
Aside from academic research, practitioners can upgrade their skills and qualifications through continuing education courses and curriculums.
As of August 2011, there were 276 accredited two-year  programs for physical therapist assistants In the United States of America.
Curricula for the physical therapist assistant associate degree include: De wicketkeeper is de speler in het cricket die achter de batsman en het wicket staat, waarop gebowld wordt.
De taak van de wicketkeeper is in grote lijnen hetzelfde als die van de catcher  bij honkbal .
De wicketkeeper is de enige speler van de fieldende partij, die handschoenen en beenbeschermers mag dragen.
De belangrijkste taak van de wicketkeeper is het tegenhouden van de ballen die door de batsman niet worden weggeslagen, zodat de batsmen geen runs kunnen maken.
Several generations of the Fairfax family continued to control the company.
Fairfax Media was founded by the Fairfax family as John Fairfax and Sons, later to become John Fairfax Holdings.
The Fairfax family lost control of the company in December 1990.
It was renamed from John Fairfax Holdings to Fairfax Media in 2007.
The Australian Financial Review was founded in 1951.
In 1979, Rupert Murdoch attempted to take over rival The Herald and Weekly Times .
Due to the costs of defending the takeover, Fairfax sold its television properties, including the Seven Network .
In March 2006, Fairfax acquired New Zealand auction website Trademe.co.nz for NZ$700 million.
The website initially employed 14 journalists and was an attempt by Fairfax to break into the South East Queensland market.
The staff reductions would take place in both Australia and New Zealand, with the latter country bearing the brunt of the cuts, with 160 full-time employees losing their jobs.
"quality journalism.
In late 2011, John B. Fairfax and his family investment company, Marinya Media, sold their remaining 9.7 percent stake in Fairfax Media for A$189 million.
Continued poor performance of Fairfax Media in light of changing news services was cited as one of the reasons for the sale of Marinya Media's interests in Fairfax.
John B. Fairfax had earlier stood down from the Fairfax board, and his son, Nick Fairfax, was reported to be discussing his future with the rest of the company board.
It also announced it was shifting to "compact" or tabloid-sized editions of the broadsheet newspapers from March 2013, and that its two printing facilities at Chullora and Tullamarine would close.
The changes, prompted by shrinking advertising revenue, were expected to generate A$235 million in annual savings over three years.
In December 2014, Fairfax merged with Macquarie Radio Network .
A party may hold only two radio licences in each market, so some stations including 2CH and the Macquarie Regional Radio network were sold.
The rules concerning the scoring of runs are mostly contained in Law 18 of the Laws of cricket .
The batsmen may be able to run up and down the pitch more than once, crossing each time, to score two, three or more runs.
A batsman can also score four or six runs by hitting the ball to or over the boundary .
Runs are added to the team score, but not the score of an individual batsman, for extras .
A batsman taking up his batting stance in front of his crease may also run from that point without penalty.
In practice, this rule is rarely invoked.
Also, if either of the batsmen is not in possession of their bat, the run is called short.
Rahul made his debut in the 2010-11 season, playing first-class cricket for Karnataka .
He made his debut in Indian Premier League in 2014, playing for Sunrisers Hyderabad .
Playing for South Zone in the final of the 2014–15 Duleep Trophy against Central Zone, Rahul scored 185 off 233 balls in the first innings and 130 off 152 balls in the second.
After an excellent domestic season in 2014, Rahul was picked in the Indian Test squad for the Australian tour .
He made his Test Debut in the Boxing Day Test Match beginning on 26 December 2014 at the Melbourne Cricket Ground .
He replaced Rohit Sharma and was handed over the Test cap by MS Dhoni .
He retained his place for the fourth test played at Sydney Cricket Ground .
He open the inning with Murali Vijay and made 110 runs, his maiden International hundred.
But he did not show any progress in the first match where he got out early in both innings for less than 10 runs.
In the second match of the series, Shikhar Dhawan lost his place due to injury and ruled out from the rest of the tour.
India finally went on to win the match to level the series and Rahul named as the man of the match.
Rahul hails from Mangalore .
His mother, Rajeshwari, is an associate professor at Mangalore University ’s undergraduate college.
A prominent junior cricketer, he played in both the 2002 Under-19 World Cup in New Zealand and the 2004 Under-19 Cricket World Cup in Bangladesh for the West Indies U-19s .
Simmons is capable of large scores; with three first class double-centuries to his name, but at the same time he has been prone to inconsistency.
His second century came in 2015 Cricket World Cup against Ireland in Nelson, New Zealand.
One Day International Centuries of Lendl Simmons Wisden was born in Crown Street, Brighton .
While bowling fast, he took on average nearly 10 wickets in each game.
He played almost all of his cricket in England, mostly for Sussex, but once for Kent and thrice for Middlesex.
Of moderate height, he was nicknamed the "Little Wonder" after the winner of the Epsom Derby in 1840, and later the "Cardinal".
Wisden died of cancer, at the age of 57, in the flat above his Cranbourn Street shop .
The team was disbanded when Kenya represented in its own right.
Traditionally, cricket matches have two umpires on the field, one standing at the end where the bowler delivers the ball .
Minor cricket matches will often have trained umpires.
The ages of umpires can vary enormously as some are former players, while others enter the cricketing world as umpires.
Nevertheless, in accordance with the tradition of cricket, most ordinary, local games will have two umpires, one supplied by each side, who will fairly enforce the accepted rules.
The second  takes the position that he feels gives him the best view of the play.
If the square-leg umpire elects to stand at point, he is required to inform both the batsmen, the captain of the fielding team, and his colleague.
He debuted for the Punjab in the 2003/04 Ranji Trophy season and continues to play first class cricket for the Punjab.
All he wants to do is bowl fast, nothing else matters to him
Singh began his domestic career with the Punjab cricket team in the Limited Overs version of the Ranji Trophy.
He played only one match and went wicketless.
Singh impressed many in the Challenger Trophy with his pace, which was the quickest of the tournament.
He then played England again at Indore in the same series.
He did not get any wickets during his two one-day matches.
He made his Test debut against the West Indies in West Indies, taking two wickets.
He had to go through complete process from Nets to Clubs to State team again.
He made his T20 comeback vs Assam in March 2012.
Kolkata is administered by several government agencies.
It scored 4.0 on 10 compared to the national average of 3.3.
The Kolkata Port Trust, an agency of the central government, manages the city's river port.
As of 2012 Kolkata's administrative agencies have areas of jurisdiction that do not coincide.
Most government establishments and institutions are housed in the center of the city in B. B. D. Bagh .
The Calcutta High Court is the oldest High Court in India.
It was preceded by the Supreme Court of Judicature at Fort William which was established in 1774.
The Calcutta High Court has jurisdiction over the state of West Bengal and the Union Territory of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands .
Kolkata has lower courts: the Court of Small Causes and the City Civil Court decide civil matters; the Sessions Court rules in criminal cases.
The U.S Consulate in Calcutta is the U.S. Department of State 's second oldest Consulate and dates from 19 November 1792.
The suburban rail network reaches the city's distant suburbs.
Buses, which are the most commonly used mode of transport, are run by government agencies and private operators.
In 2013, the airport was upgraded to handle increased air traffic.
It is up to the umpires to keep out of the way of both the ball and the players.
At the end of each over, the two umpires will exchange roles.
The Third Umpire is most often used in the case of run-outs, where the action is too fast for the naked eye but can be also used to decide the cases of disputed boundaries and catches, when the umpires cannot decide if the ball has struck the ground before being caught .
Decisions and signals This section relies too much on references to primary sources .
Please improve this article by adding secondary or tertiary sources .
During play, the umpire at the bowler's end makes the decisions, which he mainly indicates using arm movements.
When the ball is in play These decisions have an important effect on the play and are signalled straight away.
The 'out' signal is the only signal that if indicated by the striker's end umpire, does not require confirmation by the bowler's end umpire.
An umpire will signal this by crossing and uncrossing his wrists below his waist with the call Dead Ball, if he is required to do so under certain Laws, and also may do it if he thinks it is necessary to inform the players.
Signals to scorers It is important that the scorers note down the play accurately and therefore the appropriate signals will be made by the umpire when the ball is dead .
In addition to the following, the umpire repeats signals of dead ball, wide, and no-ball to the scorers.
Scorers are required to acknowledge the signals from umpires; and umpires are required to get an acknowledgement before allowing the match to proceed.
For any version listed below, click on its date to view it.
For more help, see Help:Page history and Help:Edit summary .
A batsman can only score runs from an over.
An example of this was in the 2007 Lord's test match between England and India when Kevin Pietersen was initially given out caught behind, but was recalled when television replays showed that the ball had bounced before being taken by Mahendra Singh Dhoni .
Much rarer are hit wicket, hit the ball twice, handled the ball, obstructing the field and timed out.
If any batsman leaves the field of play without the Umpire's consent for any reason other than injury or incapacity, he may resume the innings only with the consent of the opposing captain.
If he fails to resume his innings, he is out.
Apparently, this was done in order to give the other players batting practice, but was considered unsportsmanlike and drew criticism.
A batsman is bowled out.
The ball can either have struck the stumps directly, or have been deflected off the bat or body of the batsman.
An incoming batsman is “timed out” if he willfully takes more than three minutes to be ready to face the next delivery .
In the case of extremely long delays, the umpires may forfeit the match to either team.
"  indicates the player who bowled the ball also took the catch.
Law 33: Handled the ball If the batsman touches the ball with his hand not in contact with the bat for any purpose other than, with the approval of the fielder, to return the ball to the bowler, he is out on appeal.
It is considered etiquette for the fielding team not to appeal if the handling of the ball does not affect the play of the game, although there are occasions when this etiquette has been ignored.
Daryll Cullinan was given out handled the ball after chopping Keith Arthurton into the ground and catching the rebound, which may have been heading towards the stumps.
Ben Stokes was given out after holding out his glove the fear that he would be hit by the ball thrown by Mitchell Starc.
Law 34: Hit the ball twice If the batsman "hits" the ball twice, he is out.
It is therefore possible to be out hitting the ball twice, whilst not actually hitting the ball with the bat at all.
No batsman has been out hitting the ball twice in Test cricket .
Bengali and English are the primary languages of instruction; Urdu and Hindi are also used, particularly in central Kolkata.
Request an account Wikipedia is made by people like you.
Iyer, at the age of 12, was spotted by coach Pravin Amre at the Shivaji Park Gymkhana.
He hails from Tamil Nadu.
Amre trained him in his early cricketing days.
Further details regarding Trent Bridge Cricket Team can be found at www.tbct.co.uk
He scored 273 runs in that tournament at an average of 54.60.
He made his first-class cricket debut in December 2014 during the 2014–15 Ranji Trophy .
Thus Iyer became the highest earning uncapped player in the tournament.
On 24 December 2014 while playing for Punjab, he made an unbeaten 73 runs to see his team to victory while chasing 205 for victory on the 4th day.
He hit nine fours and two sixes in his knock.
The most crucial hit-wicket dismissal in Test history was arguably that of Graeme Smith at Trent Bridge in 2003: Smith had made 277  and 85 from 70 balls at Edgbaston, and 259 at Lord's, as South Africa dominated the first two Tests of the series.
In the third, Smith was on 35 when he played back to Andrew Flintoff and trod on his stumps.
The batsman can be given out if the ball strikes him outside the off stump, if the ball would have hit the stumps and if the batsman is playing no stroke.
The ball must not pitch outside the line of leg stump.
Also, the ball cannot have made contact with the bat or glove that is touching the bat before hitting the batsman.
If the ball hits the batsman either on the full or immediately after bouncing, the umpire is required to assume that the ball is travelling straight on, ignoring any spin, swing or other hard to predict movement that may have changed the direction of the ball if it had not hit the batsman.
He may also stand in between the fielder and the stumps.
A run out cannot occur if no fielder has touched the ball.
If the striker steps in front of the crease to play the ball, leaving no part of his anatomy or the bat on the ground behind the crease, and the wicket-keeper is able to remove the bails from the wicket with the ball, then the striker is out.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
His first-class debut earlier this season was impressive, but he found himself under the hammer against Australia in the Under-19 one-dayers, and played only one match in the Under-19 World Cup.
He is one of the most energetic Young bowler.
He represented Mumbai Indians from the 2008 Indian Premier League .
He was bought by Delhi Daredevils in Indian Premier League 2014 but was replaced by Imran Tahir  after he was sidelined by an injured shoulder.
His performance on this day brought him the man of the match trophy.
Unadkat's consistent performance helped him enter the Indian team.
He debuted for India against South Africa on 16 December 2010 for the 1st Test at Centurion.
He was brought in place of Zaheer Khan who sat out because of injury .
He took no wickets in this match.
From 2011 to present, he has failed to deliver any impressive performance, rendering him irregular in domestic matches.
He was named Man of the Match for that Performance.
Kaul made his first-class debut for Punjab at the age of 18 against Hyderabad in 2005.
He has been their first-choice wicket-keeper ever since in the longer versions of the game.
He leads Punjab in the absence of their skipper Harbhajan Singh .
Batting at 7, he scored 32 as Punjab went on to win by an innings and 151 runs.
In the 2007-08 Ranji season, Kaul made 503 runs from 10 innings at an average of 62.87 with two hundreds.
In the 2008-09 season, he scored 547 runs from 10 innings at an average of 68.37 with two hundreds and three fifties.
In the quarterfinal against Karnataka, he scored 68 and 86.
The match was drawn and Karnataka qualified for the semifinals by virtue of their first-innings lead.
In the 2010-11 season, Kaul made 561 runs from 11 innings, averaging 56.10 with one century and four fifties.
In 2011-12, he continued his consistent batting display by scoring 478 runs from 11 innings with two hundreds and two fifties.
He struck three centuries in that season including an unbeaten 113 against Jharkhand in the quarterfinal.
In 2012, he also played for Prime Bank Cricket Club  in the Dhaka Premier League .
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
After enduring years of selection and deselection, Russell retired from international cricket in 1998, leaving Stewart unrivalled as England's keeper-batsman until his own retirement in 2003.
Always more of an establishment figure than any sort of rebel, it was no surprise when Stewart was asked to captain England in 1998 when Mike Atherton resigned.
Despite being the age of 35 at the time, Stewart's level of fitness was impeccable, especially bearing in mind that most players do not continue beyond 37.
Nonetheless, failures against Australia and in the 1999 cricket World Cup saw him sacked from the captaincy to be replaced by Hussain.
During his captaincy, he had the unusual distinction of simultaneously captaining the side, opening the batting and keeping wicket.
Stewart's batting average  is the lowest of any player to have scored 8000 or more runs in Test cricket: he is the only player to have scored over 8000 runs despite an average of under 40.
As wicketkeeper-batsman he averaged 34.92 from 82 tests, higher than many of his contemporaries and many of the current batch of international wicketkeepers.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
A wicket consists of three stumps that are hammered into the ground, and topped with two bails.
The large central cylinder is called the barrel and the smaller protrusions are the spigots.
The spigots are of unequal length: the longer rests alone on one stump, while the shorter rests on the middle stump together with the short spigot of the other bail.
The batsman is standing at the centre point facing south.
The positions are mirrored for left-handers.
Front-foot shots are played with the weight on the front foot .
These "textbook" shots are standard material found in many coaching manuals.
Unorthodox shots are typically—but not always— more high-risk than orthodox shots due to some aspects of good batting technique being abandoned.
An ideal stance is "comfortable relaxed and balanced," with the feet 40 centimetres  apart, parallel and astride the crease.
Additionally, the front shoulder should be pointing down the wicket, the head facing the bowler, the weight equally balanced and the bat near the back toe.
By doing this he is ready to move swiftly into position to address the ball once he sees its path out of the bowler's hand.
Forward and back Depending upon the path of the ball, the batsman will either move forward or back in his attempt to intercept it.
The batsman will step forward towards the ball, bending his front knee in order to bring his bat down to the anticipated height of the ball.
By moving forwards, the batsman is also able to intercept the ball immediately after it has pitched, thus nullifying any potentially dangerous lateral movement.
The batsman will step back and, if necessary, stand on his tip toes to raise his bat to the height of the ball.
By stepping back towards the wicket, he also receives the advantage of having an extra small amount of time to react to any unexpected lateral movement or variation in bounce.
The famous 'back drive', made famous by Sir Donald Bradman.
Note the batsman's head focussed on where the ball had bounced.
The bat and hands are held well out of the way of the ball.
The batsman still has to watch the ball closely to ensure that it will not hit him or the wicket; he also has to ensure that his bat and hands are kept out of the path of the ball so that it cannot make accidental contact and possibly lead to him being out caught .
Vertical bat or straight-bat shots can be played either off the front foot or the back foot depending upon the anticipated height of the ball at the moment it reaches the batsman.
Vertical bat shots are typically played with the batsman's head directly above the point of contact so that he is able to accurately judge the line of the ball.
Pushing the ball is one of the more common ways batsmen manipulate the strike.
The stroke involves deflecting the bat-face towards the leg side at the last moment, head and body moving inside the line of the ball.
off the toes, shins or hip
It is played off the front foot if the ball is pitched up at the toes or shin of the batsman, or off the back foot if the ball bounces at waist/hip height to the batsman.
This would commonly be described instead as "running  the ball down to third man.
A drive can also be played towards midwicket, although the phrase "midwicket drive" is not in common usage.
Drives can be played both off the front and the back foot, but back-foot drives are harder to force through the line of the ball.
Virat Kohli playing the flick shot in 2015.
It is often also called the clip off the legs.
The shot is playing with the bat coming through straight as for the on drive, but the bat face is angled towards the leg side.
It can be played both off the front foot or the back foot, either off the toes or from the hips.
The shot is played between the mid on and square leg region.
Typically played along the ground, the flick can also be played by lofting the ball over the infield.
The second class of cricket stroke are the horizontal bat shots, also known as cross bat shots.
Note the balance and weight of the batsman is on his back  leg.
The batsman makes contact with the ball as it draws alongside or passes him and therefore requires virtually no effort on his part as he uses the bowler's pace to divert the ball.
Pull and hook shots can be played off front or back foot, with back foot being more typical.
Many unorthodox, typically high-risk, shots have been used throughout the history of the game.
The advent of limited overs cricket has seen the increased use of unorthodox shots to hit the ball into gaps where there are no fielders placed.
Unorthodox shots are rarely used in first-class cricket as the pace of the game is slower and it is relatively more important to keep one's wicket than to try to score runs off every ball.
A few unorthodox shots have gained enough popularity or notoriety to have been given their own names and entered common usage.
The batsman may also swap his hands on the bat handle to make the stroke easier to execute.
Cricket coach Bob Woolmer has been credited with popularising the stroke.
England subsequently lost momentum and eventually lost the match.
A slog can also be described as hitting the ball to "cow corner".
This phrase is designed to imply that the batsman is unsophisticated in his strokeplay and technique by suggesting he would be more at home playing on more rudimentary cricket fields in which there may be cows grazing along the boundary edge.
The slog can be an effective shot because all the batsman's power and body weight can be put into swinging the bat at the ball.
Slog sweeps are usually directed over square-leg rather than to mid-wicket.
It is almost exclusively used against reasonably full-pitched balls from slow bowlers, as only then does the batsman have time to sight the length and adopt the kneeling position required for the slog sweep.
The shot is hit to the bouncers towards third man area is widely used in modern cricket.
The shot is well advantageous in fast bouncy tracks and the shot is seen commonly in twnty20 cricket.
The latest cricket shot to invented is known as Pericope shot.
The shot was introduced by Bangladeshi batsman Soumya Sarkar .
While executing this shot, Sarkar moved his body behind the crease, bent himself in the reverse pose, aligned his bat along the path of the ball and directed it towards his desired direction.
It was subsequently used in the New Zealand series in England in 2008 when Pietersen performed the shot twice in the same innings on his way to making an unbeaten century.
The legality of the switch hit was questioned when first introduced, but cleared by the International Cricket Council as legal.
It is played to short pitched straight balls that would traditionally be defended or, more aggressively, pulled to the leg side.
In order to do this, the batsman must take into consideration the bowler's strategy, the position of the fielders, the pitch conditions, and his own strengths and weaknesses.
The success of this strategy will be dependent upon both the accuracy of its conception and the technical ability with which it is carried out.
The level of aggression of his strategy will be informed by the target run rate and the calculated risk of losing his wicket, which will be dependent upon the match situation.
In July 2012, Coulter-Nile re-signed with the Perth Scorchers for the 2012–13 Big Bash League season .
Jammu and Kashmir first took part in the Ranji Trophy in 1959-60.
Sunil Joshi is current coach for of team since 2014 as tasted early success under him by beating the Ranji giants Mumbai cricket team at Wankhede Stadium in the prelim rounds of Ranji Trophy in 2014/15 .
He made his debut in first class cricket on 25 December 2006 for Punjab against Rajasthan, but had to wait till 2009 to play again.
Rahul played only one Ranji match in the 2010-11 season.
He took just five wickets and went at 8.08 an over in the six matches he played for Deccan Chargers .
In 2015 rahul sharma was bought by Chennai Super kings in the ipl8 auction.
Punjab have won the Ranji Trophy only once, in 1992-93.
Punjab have never won the one-day trophy.
As well as his first-class career in Pakistan, Tahir has had short spells with Yorkshire  and Middlesex in county cricket as well as playing for Staffordshire in the Minor Counties Cricket Championship .
While Tahir has represented Pakistan Under-19 cricket team 's and Pakistan A, he failed to win full international honours for Pakistan .
Tahir represented Warwickshire for the 2010 season, although he is contracted to play for Hampshire from the 2011 season onwards.
Tahir made his 100th first-class appearance in the 2009/2010 SuperSport Series when the Titans played the Lions .
At the end of the 2009/10 season, Tahir moved from the Titans to the Dolphins.
I'm not entirely sure what the issues are between him and the Titans, but the Titans obviously aren't going to pick him because they'd rather pick the young leggie they have
He holds the record for representing highest number of teams  in the world.
He moved to the Highveld Lions in 2012.
KK Jiyas  is an Indian first class cricketer, playing for Delhi Daredevils in 2015 Indian Premier League .
The site was reliant on contributions from fans around the world who spent hours compiling electronic scorecards and contributing them to CricInfo's comprehensive archive, as well as keying in live scores from games around the world using CricInfo's scoring software, "dougie".
It used around $22m worth of the paper to pay off initial investors but only raised about £6 million by selling the remaining stock.
The magazine published its last issue in July 2007.
In 2007, the Wisden Group began to be broken up and sold to other companies; BSkyB acquired The Wisden Cricketer, while Sony Corporation acquired the Hawk-Eye ball tracking system.
Manpreet Singh Gony made his debut for Punjab in the Ranji Trophy in the season 2007-08.
He was later selected for the Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League .
Gony has made his mark in the 2008 Indian Premier League matches.
He played for the Chennai Super Kings .
He was one of leading wicket takers in the Indian Premier League and also performed well with the bat, scoring crucial runs in the last overs.
He was instrumental in the Chennai Super Kings victory against Delhi Daredevils .
He was presented with the man of the match for his powerful batting performance.
Gony finished with figures of 4-3-5-3 in Punjab's Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy quarter final win against Madhya Pradesh .
He has two elder brothers Harpreet Singh Grewal and Manmohan Singh Grewal and he was married to Manpreet Kaur and is now divorced to her.
He is now engaged to woman named Heena Singh.
To his friends and family, he is known by his nickname "Gony".
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
It is working on completing its coverage of English Second XI and other matches, including extensive coverage of UK club cricket.
Its general editors are Peter Griffiths and Philip Bailey .
Using the book creator After the book creator has been enabled, the box as seen below is shown above each wiki page.
Add this page to your book Adds the currently viewed article  to your book.
On that page, you can change the order of the articles in your book and structure them using chapters.
This tool allows to create books quickly.
This will disable the Book creator and delete your book .
Click on this link, and the linked article will be added to your book.
The Add this page to your book link will have changed into Add this category to your book.
Click on this new link, and all the articles in that category will be added to your book.
Relevant categories may be found at the very bottom of Wikipedia articles.
Categories can also be added by hovering category links.
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Do not fill this in!==Youth international career== Kaul was named in the squad for the India U-19s team for the 2008 Under-19 World Cup in  of 15.40, putting him joint tenth on the list of highest wicket-takers for the tournament.<ref>{{cite
It was also Australia's first home series defeat in 16 years.
Steyn was named man of the match for this performance.
Smith was eventually bowled out by Mitchell Johnson with ten balls to go.
He was bought by the Deccan Chargers for $1.2 million.
He was awarded the man of the match against Mumbai Indians though Deccan Chargers lost the match.
Steyn is an aggressive out-and-out fast bowler capable of bowling at speeds in excess of 150 km/h.
He is capable of generating considerable swing and is usually chosen to bowl with the new ball to maximize these attributes.
Adults are just catching up to what teens have been doing for years,
It also stated that five percent of users accounted for seventy-five percent of all activity, and that New York City has more Twitter users than other cities.
According to Quancast, twenty-seven million people in the US used Twitter as of September 3, 2009.
In an article published on January 6, 2012, Twitter was confirmed to be the biggest social media network in Japan, with Facebook following closely in second.
Score confirmed this, stating that Japan is the only country in the world where Twitter leads Facebook.
In 2012, the country with the most active users on Twitter was the United States.
In December 2011, the Saudi prince Alwaleed bin Talal invested $300 million in Twitter.
The company was valued at $8.4 billion at the time.
In July 2009, some of Twitter's revenue and user growth documents were published on TechCrunch after being illegally obtained by Hacker Croll .
The documents projected 2009 revenues of US$400,000 in the third quarter and US$4 million in the fourth quarter along with 25 million users by the end of the year.
The projections for the end of 2013 were US$1.54 billion in revenue, US$111 million in net earnings, and 1 billion users.
On April 13, 2010, Twitter announced plans to offer paid advertising for companies that would be able to purchase "promoted tweets" to appear in selective search results on the Twitter website, similar to Google Adwords' advertising model.
Users' photos can generate royalty-free revenue for Twitter, and an agreement with World Entertainment News Network  was announced in May 2011.
Twitter generated US$139.5 million in advertising sales during 2011.
The self-service advertising platform was launched in March 2012 to American Express card members and merchants in the U.S. on an invite-only basis.
Twitter later reported that numerous small businesses and people who used the self-service tool provided feedback that indicated they were impressed by the feature.
Twitter's financial revenue statistics for the first quarter of 2014 was reported as US$250 million.
Twitter places great reliance on open-source software .
After the huge volume of tweets coming in caused problems reading from and writing to these databases, the company decided that the system needed re-engineering.
The process itself is managed by FlockDB and takes an average of 350 ms.
Krikorian explained that Twitter achieved this record by blending its homegrown and open source technologies.
The service's application programming interface  and sort out by asser tickers according to its own algorithm.
About 13,000 volunteers helped with translating the menu options.
Twitter had approximately ninety-eight percent uptime in 2007 .
May 2008: Twitter's new engineering team made architectural changes to deal with the scale of growth.
Stability issues resulted in down time or temporary feature removal.
It was announced that Twitter aims to return its IM service pending necessary major work.
June 25, 2009: Twitter ran slowly for some time after over 50,000 tweets on Michael Jackson 's death were recorded in an hour.
September 22, 2009: The identifier exceeded the limit for 32-bit unsigned integers  again breaking some third-party clients.
No connection between the hackers and Iran has been established.
July 26, 2012: Twitter users in the UK could not post messages for part of the day in advance of the 2012 Summer Olympics .
Privacy and security Twitter messages are public, but users can also send private messages.

A security vulnerability was reported on April 7, 2007, by Nitesh Dhanjani and Rujith.
Twitter launched the beta version of their "Verified Accounts" service on June 11, 2009, allowing famous or notable people to announce their Twitter account name.
For example, comedian Conan O'Brien 's account, which had been set to follow only one person, was changed to receive nearly 200 malicious subscriptions.
In response to Twitter's security breaches, the US Federal Trade Commission  brought charges against the service; the charges were settled on June 24, 2010.
Twitter announced plans to use Dasient to help remove hateful advertisers on the website.
Twitter cited France and Germany as examples, where pro- Nazi content is illegal.
Previously, deleted tweets were removed in all countries.
The "Do Not Track" feature works only on sites that have agreed to the service.
A petition for making the process of complaining about harassment easier had collected over 100,000 signatures.
In August 2014, Twitter said that in certain cases it would delete pictures of people who had died after requests from family members and "authorized individuals".
The move followed controversy over the sharing of images on Twitter showing the killing of American journalist James Foley .
The change make these users subject to Irish and European data protection laws.
On April 17, 2012, Twitter announced it would implement an "Innovators Patent Agreement" which would obligate Twitter to only use its patents for defensive purposes.
The agreement went into effect in 2012.
It has been learned that Simons spoke to Gary Kirsten, India's coach, last week and that was the first occasion he learned of the management's interest in him.
Simon's appointment comes after former South African fast bowler Allan Donald's name cropped up last Tuesday, as one of the contenders for the vacant bowling coach position.
During the recently concluded Sri Lanka series the Indian fast bowlers were lukewarm even if they improved on their death bowling, and in the current tri-series in Bangladesh they have been disappointing.
Simons has worked in various capacities at the prestigious High Performance Centre in Pretoria along with the likes of Kepler Wessels.
Indian Test cricketer .
He was part of the Indian under 19 team that toured Sri Lanka in 1979 under the captaincy of Ravi Shastri.
He toured Sharjah in 1987 and appeared in all of India's three matches without distinction.
A cricketer's bowling average is calculated by dividing the numbers of runs they have conceded by the number of wickets they have taken.
Most significant among these are the different eras in which cricket has been played.
The bowling average tables in Test and first-class cricket are headed by players who competed in the nineteenth century, Shastri's ancestral origins are from Mangalore .
At 17 years and 292 days, he was then the youngest cricketer to play for Bombay.
An Indian under–19 team was scheduled to tour Pakistan in 1980–81.
Shastri was included in the coaching camp at the last minute by the National Coach Hemu Adhikari .
The tour, however, was cancelled.
The team later went to Sri Lanka, but the games were frequently interrupted by rain.
His only notable achievement in his first two Ranji seasons were bowling figures of 6-61, which he took against Delhi in the 1979–80 Ranji final that Bombay lost.
While he was playing against Uttar Pradesh at Kanpur in the next season, he was called up to the squad touring New Zealand to stand in for the injured left arm spinner Dilip Doshi .
Shastri arrived in Wellington the night before the first Test.
In the third Test, his seven wickets won him the man of the match award, while his 15 wickets in the series were the highest for either side.
Within eighteen months of his Test debut, Shastri had moved up from tenth position in the batting order to being an opening batsman.
This was reflected in his performances.
It was the failure of the regular openers Pranab Roy and Ghulam Parkar that led to Shastri being made to open at the Oval against England in 1982.
He distinguished himself by scoring 66 runs in that match.
An injury in the webbing of his hand ruled him out of four of the Tests to be played in Pakistan.
He later made another hundred against the West Indies in Antigua .
Indian Cricket was impressed enough to suggest that, given time, he could become one of the best batsmen in the Indian team.
Shastri was not selected to play in most of the important matches in the 1983 World Cup .
In the series against the West Indies later that year, he again distinguished himself with his bold effort in batting against the domineering West Indian pace bowlers.
In October 1984, India toured Pakistan for the third time in six years.
The Lahore Test saw India collapse to 156 against Pakistan 's 428, and follow on .
Shastri scored 71, while Amarnath made 101*.
The last Test and the remainder of the tour were cancelled because of the assassination of Indira Gandhi .
Shastri appeared to be the next in line.
He led the Young India side to Zimbabwe in early 1984.
Around this time, Shastri also began to open the innings regularly in one day games .
Shastri had stood in for Gavaskar and opened with Srikkanth in two matches of the 1983 World Cup .
Shastri's success continued in Test matches against England.
In the Bombay Test his 235 run stand with wicket-keeper Syed Kirmani led to victory for India.
His 142 improved upon the 139 at Faisalabad as his highest score.
With Mohammad Azharuddin he added 214 for the fifth wicket, another Indian record.
His first hundred came up in 72 minutes and 80 balls and included nine fours and four sixes.
The second took just 41 minutes and 43 balls.
Shastri's unfinished sixth wicket stand of 204* with Ghulam Parkar, who contributed only 33 to the partnership, took only 83 minutes.
In Baroda's second innings, Shastri took two wickets in four overs.
Srikkanth too scored three fifties and India posted century opening stands against Australia and in the final.
India went in with two spinners for every match.
It helped that all the matches were played at Melbourne and Sydney which have turning tracks and long boundaries.
Sivaramakrishnan and Shastri claimed 18 wickets between them in five matches.
He won an Audi 100 car for his efforts.
Two weeks later India won the Rothman's cup in Sharjah beating Pakistan and Australia.
Shastri and Siva continued their successful partnership with the ball.
It was for this tournament that Shastri served as the Indian vice captain for the first time.
The Ranji final of 1984/85 turned out to be one of the finest matches in Indian domestic cricket history.
A sleepy Gavaskar won the toss and batted.
Batting at No.5, he scored his 20th and last hundred in Ranji trophy and took Bombay to 333.
Shastri made 29 before he was bowled attempting to cut an arm–ball .
With two days and 100 minutes left, Bombay went for quick runs.
A crowd of about 46,000 turned up for match on the fourth day and the organizers ran out of tickets.
Except for the odd delivery, the ball spun slowly and afforded enough time for the batsmen to play their strokes.
Early on the final day, Delhi reached 95 for no loss and then collapsed.
His first wicket was Chauhan who was declared out caught behind with the ball having spun across the face of the bat without apparently touching it.
The match changed dramatically and the batsmen lost their head.
In the 50th year of Ranji trophy, it was their 30th title.
Shastri continued as vice captain to Kapil Dev in the 1985–86 season.
This season and the England tour of 1986 were ordinary ones for him.
Bombay lost to Haryana in the semifinal of the Ranji trophy but West Zone won the Duleep Trophy .
Australia, Sri Lanka and Pakistan toured India in 1986–87.
When Indian middle order collapsed and India fell behind the run rate, his two sixes in quick succession off off–spinner Greg Matthews came in handy.
In the final Test at Bombay he scored 121*.
As was becoming increasingly common, it was played in first and fourth gear.
He hung around for around 30 minutes for the last run for his fifty and twice as long in the nineties.
Yet he hit six sixes, three of which came after he completed his hundred.
Six sixes in an innings was an Indian record at the time.
But he was outshone by Dilip Vengsarkar who scored 164* in the same innings.
He scored hundreds in the quarter final and semifinal of the Duleep trophy, but West Zone lost to South on first innings lead in the latter match.
He did well enough to be the man of the one day series.
In the first one-day match against Pakistan he captained India for the first time, scoring 50 and taking three wickets.
He took four wickets at Calcutta and 69* at Hyderabad in two thrilling finishes.
This was aired on the national channel Doordarshan on Sunday mornings.
There were even rumours of an involvement with actress Amrita Singh .
In 1987, Glamorgan contracted Shastri to play for them.
Shastri's presence did little for the fortunes of the county which finished at the bottom of the first class table in two of those seasons.
Shastri topped 1000 runs in 1989 and scored hundreds in both innings against Middlesex .
The almanack noticed that Shastri was already becoming reluctant to bowl.
Glamorgan in one day matches.
Shastri won the leading six hitter award for the Sunday league matches of 1988 with 14 sixes.
Always the bridesmaid India lost the final Test at Bangalore to lose the 1986–87 series against Pakistan.
Kapil Dev was widely cricticised in the media for his captaincy.
The selectors retained him as captain in the Reliance World Cup at the beginning of the 1987–88 season.
India topped its group but went down to England in the semifinal.
About this time, Vengsarkar emerged as the strongest candidate to take over from Kapil.
In 1987, the newly established Deloitte ratings  ranked him the best batsman in the world.
The Indian selectors have conventionally leaned towards making the best player of the team the captain.
Vengsarkar had his left arm fractured in the third Test and Shastri captained India for the only time in his Test career.
On an underprepared turning track in Madras, India won the toss and elected to bat first.
Debutant Narendra Hirwani took 16 for 136 as India won by 255 runs to draw the series 1–1.
Apart from this, Shastri did little with bat or ball.
Sri Lanka and New Zealand were the other teams and India won easily.
India travelled to West Indies in early 1989.
It came at Bridgetown in the second Test.
India trailed by 56 in the first innings and lost the six second innings wickets for 63.
Looking back at the end of the his career, he was to consider this his finest innings.
Though the suspension was later revoked, Vengsarkar was sacked.
Srikkanth became the new captain and Shastri, yet again, the deputy.
After an indifferent series in Pakistan, both were excluded from the tour of New Zealand in 1990.
Shastri was recalled for the tour to England that summer as the vice-captain.
Since 1985, Shastri's career had been in steady decline but he was able to turn it around in 1990.
The pitches in England were good for batting and he scored two hundreds in the three Tests.
He was now back as an opener.
He topped this with 187 at the Oval.
You admire it for the virtues, not for its style.
For nine hours and 21 minutes, he chiselled away the England attack and the sculpture that he left behind represented perseverance and craft.
There was the usual stoic, expressionless face under the helmet, but you could see the determination in his eyes as he planted himself at the wicket, struck root and bore fruit.
A series of abandoned tours meant India played few matches at home at this time.
But it also saw the final flourishes in the careers of Shastri and Kapil Dev.
In the third Test at Sydney, he scored his only double hundred in Test cricket, the first by an Indian against Australia.
It was also during this innings that the knee injury that would soon end his career appeared for the first time.
India had gone into the match with four pace bowlers and no regular spinners.
By the final day, pitch started taking spin.
Shastri took four wickets in the second innings and Australia just about beat the clock to draw the match.
India could well have won the match with another spinner.
In the second final against Australia Shastri worsened the knee injury.
At the later stages of the innings he was forced to stand and slog.
He missed the remaining two Test matches, both of which India lost.
In their second match, India chased 238 to win in 50 overs against Australia.
A rain interruption meant that the target was revised to 236 in 47 overs.
Shastri took 67 balls for his 25; India went on to lose by one run.
He was blamed for the defeat and dropped from the remaining matches of the tournament.
In the next season, South Africa hosted India for their first ever tour.
Shastri opened in all four Tests and struggled to score runs.
He had batted down the order in the one day matches of this series.
In reference to the World Cup innings against Australia, he commented later that for once he knew what his exact role was.
India hosted England immediately after the South Africa series.
The knee injury returned before the series and put Shastri out of cricket for eight months.
He never again represented India in international cricket.
With the Test players away, Shastri captained the young team in the knockout matches.
Bombay defeated Haryana by an innings and 202 runs in the pre quarter final but ran into trouble against Karnataka in the next round.
Against 406, Bombay lost their first six for 174, before Shastri and Sairaj Bahutule added 259 in six hours.
Shastri's individual score was 151.
Bombay survived the best part of the last day to win on first innings lead.
It was their first championship since the famous win against Delhi nine years ago.
In September 1994, while in Sri Lanka covering the Singer World Series, Shastri announced his retirement from first class cricket.
Ravi Shastri in 2015In late 1990, Shastri married Ritu Singh.
He temporarily coached the Indian cricket team for their 2007 Bangladesh tour.
He was named the Celebrity Torchbearer for the Oman Leg of the 2008 Summer Olympics torch relay .
For more detailed advice, see Citing Wikipedia .
He is quite handy with the bat as well.
In his debut season of the Ranji trophy for Delhi in 2007-08, Sangwan took 33 wickets at an average of 19.24 and also scored 122 runs at an average of 20.33.
His 'A' samples reportedly showed presence of banned substances.
Table shows players with at least 20 innings completed.
For more comprehensive statistics see List of cricket batting averages .
If necessary to break ties, batting averages could be taken to more than three decimal places.
This is because while in cricket, scoring runs is almost entirely dependent on one's own batting skill, in baseball it is largely dependent on having other good hitters on one's team.
Chadwick noted that hits are independent of teammates' skills, so used this as the basis for the baseball batting average.
There have been numerous attempts to explain the disappearance of the .400
Stephen Jay Gould 's 1996 book Full House .
Ty Cobb holds the record for highest career batting average with .366,
Rogers Hornsby who has the second highest average in history at .358.
While finishing six plate appearances short of qualifying for the batting title, Adam Dunn of the Chicago White Sox hit .159
The league batting average in Major League Baseball for 2004 was just higher than .266,

Batting average does not take into account walks or power, whereas other statistics such as on-base percentage and slugging percentage have been specifically designed to measure such concepts.
In 1887, Major League Baseball counted bases on balls as hits .
The result of this was skyrocketed batting averages, including some near .500,

Qualifications for the batting title The Major League Baseball batting averages championships  record for most batting titles, officially winning 11 in his pro career.
The NL was advised to adopt 400 at-bats for the 1945 season, but League President Ford Frick refused, feeling that 100 games should stand for the benefit of catchers and injured players.

This standard applied in the AL from 1936–1956.
Gwynn was awarded the title since he would have led the league even if he'd gone 0-for-4 in those missing plate appearances.
His average would have dropped to .349,
He attended his Schooling in Shankar Rao Chouhan Vidyalaya, Khaperkheda.
Of Yadav's early career Gandhe remarked "He was raw and wayward.
But he was really quick – too quick.
I thought that if he lands at least three out of six balls in line with the stumps, he will trouble batsmen."
His first wicket was that of Himalaya Sagar who was out bowled; Yadav did not bowl in Madhya Pradesh' second innings, but in the first claimed four wickets for 72 runs  as his team lost by ten wickets.
From playing for Vidarbha, Yadav was selected to represent the Central Zone in the Duleep Trophy in his first season.
On 16 April 2013, Umesh got engaged to Delhi-based fashion designer Tanya Wadhwa, with the wedding scheduled for 29 May.
Ever since the prominence of Mohammad Shami Umesh Yadav has struggled to be picked consistently.
When the West Indies toured in November 2011, the Indian selectors opted to change the team's fast bowlers.
Yadav was selected as one of India's pace bowlers for their tour of Australia in 2011–12.
He played in all four Tests, taking 14 wickets at an average of 39.35 as India lost the series 4–0.
More importantly, he attacks the stumps, and doesn't wait for edges.
Eleven of his 21 Test wickets have been bowled.
Another has been lbw.
It is not at large odds with his overall first-class strike-rate of 46.8.
Attacking the stumps also leaves less control on the run flow, which shows in his economy rate of 4.24 in Tests.
Former Australian bowler Glenn McGrath was impressed with Yadav's performance in the first Test at the Melbourne Cricket Ground in January.
McGrath said He was quite impressive.
He bowls at good pace.
Perhaps, the direction and control are not there quite yet, but it's not far away.
He's got that raw talent, good pace and can generate good bounce.
A highlight of Australia's early history was the 1882 Test match against England at The Oval .
In this match Fred Spofforth took 7/44 in the game's fourth innings to save the match by preventing England from making their 85-run target.
To this day, the contest is one of the fiercest rivalries in sport.
It participated in between the 1897–98 English tour of Australia and the 1910–11 South African tour of Australia.
Victor Trumper became one of Australia's first sporting heroes, and was widely considered Australia's greatest batsman before Bradman and one of the most popular players.
His early death in 1915 at the age of 37 from kidney disease caused national mourning.
This was the last series before the war, and no more cricket was played by Australia for eight years, with Tibby Cotter being killed in Palestine during the war.
The side was on the whole inconsistent in the latter half of the 1920s, losing its first home Ashes series since the 1911–12 season in 1928–29.
Jackson died of tuberculosis at the age of 24 three years later, after playing eight tests.
The team was widely considered unstoppable, winning nine of its next ten Tests.
The tactic, although effective, was widely considered by Australian crowds as vicious and unsporting.
The Australian team managed to overcome the damaging series, winning their next tour of England in 1934.
Sir Donald Bradman is widely considered the greatest batsman of all time.
It is almost 40 runs above the next highest average.
He was knighted in 1949 for services to cricket.
He is generally considered one of Australia's greatest sporting heroes.
Australia was by far the most successful team of the 1940s, being undefeated throughout the decade, winning two Ashes series against England and its first Test series against India .
Of 31 first-class games played during the tour, they won 23 and drew 8, including winning the five match Test series 4–0, with one draw.
Australia ended winning by 45 runs, an identical result to the first Test match.
Packer secretly signed leading international cricketers to his competition, including 28 Australians.
Graham Yallop was named as captain for the Ashes, with Kim Hughes taking over for the 1979–80 tour of India.
Rodney Hogg still managed to take 41 wickets in his debut series, an Australian record.
Greg Chappell was reinstated as captain.
The rebel tours were funded by the South African Cricket Board to compete against its national side, which had been banned—along with many other sports, including Olympic athletes—from competing internationally, due to the South African government's racist apartheid policies.
These players were handed three-year suspensions by the Australian Cricket Board which greatly weakened the player pool for the national sides, as most were either current representative players or on the verge of gaining honours.
Under the captaincy of Allan Border and the new fielding standards put in place by new coach Bob Simpson, the team was restructured and gradually rebuilt their cricketing stocks.
The Australians went on to the West Indies and had their chances but ended up losing the series.
However they bounced back and beat the Indians in their next Test series.
The Australian team was marred by the death of Phillip Hughes on November 27, 2014.
In 2015 Australia won the 2015 Cricket World Cup .
Vijay started playing cricket at the age of 17.
Despite his below-average performances in club cricket and Under-22 tournaments, Vijay was selected in the Tamil Nadu squad for the Ranji One-day Trophy in February 2006.
He made his senior cricket debut in Tamil Nadu's last group fixture of the tournament, against Karnataka on 16 February, and scored 17 in that match.
Vijay rose to prominence during the 2006-07 Ranji Trophy, his debut first-class season, in which he finished as the third highest run-getter of the tournament, only behind Karnataka's Robin Uthappa and Bengal's Manoj Tiwary .
Of Vijay's technique, former Australian captain Allan Border said "His defensive shots are so assured.
And he looks comfortable of both front and back foot.
And when he attacks, he doesn't go hard at the deliveries.
I can see why this young man is playing".
Vijay made 33 and 41, contributing to opening stands of 98 and 116.
He then ran out Michael Hussey when fielding at silly point.
In the second innings, he caught Brett Lee at bat pad from the bowling of Harbhajan Singh to complete his first catch.
In December 2009, Vijay was given another opportunity in the Test team when Gambhir withdrew from the Third and final Test against Sri Lanka at Brabourne Stadium in Mumbai in order to attend his sister's wedding.
Convening the meeting was no small effort considering the calibre of those attending and that many of the sports officials were only part-time amateurs.
As 22 November, the date of the opening ceremony, drew closer, Melbourne was gripped ever more tightly by Olympic fever.
A young up and coming distance runner was chosen to carry the Olympic torch into the stadium for the opening ceremony.
His few failures came in Olympic and Commonwealth Games competition.
Although favourite for the gold at Tokyo in 1964 he was placed ninth in the 5,000 metres race and the marathon and third in the 10,000 metres.
He lost again in the 1966 Commonwealth Games and in 1968 at altitude in Mexico he collapsed at the end of the 10 km race.
On that famous day in Melbourne in 1956 the torch spluttered and sparked, showering Clarke with hot magnesium, burning holes in his shirt.
When he dipped the torch into the cauldron it burst into flame singeing him further.
In the centre of the ground, John Landy, the fastest miler in the world, took the Olympic oath and sculler Merv Wood carried the Australian flag.
She was to be overshadowed by her Western Suburbs club member, the Marlene Matthews .
Both Matthews and Cuthbert won their heats with Matthews setting an Olympic record of 11.5 seconds in hers.
The world record of 11.3 was held by another Australian, Shirley Strickland who was eliminated in her heat.
The result was repeated in the 200 m final.
Cuthbert won her second gold breaking Marjorie Jackson’s Olympic record.
Mathews was third again.
Matthews trained with the relay team up until the selection was made but Cuthbert, Strickland, Fleur Mellor and Norma Croker were picked for the team.
There was outrage at the selection which increased when Matthews went on to run third in both the 100 m and 200 m finals.
Personally she was devastated and felt that she had been overlooked for her poor baton change.
Strickland was disappointed with the way Matthews was treated and maintained it was an opinion held in New South Wales that she had baton problems.
The men did not fare so well.
Charles Porter also won silver in the high jump.
Allan Lawrence won bronze in the 10,000 m event.
The Olympics being an amateur competition meant that only amateurs could play in the demonstration game.
From 1517 onwards, Portuguese traders from Malacca and Goa were traversing the sea routes to Bengal.
Sher Shah Suri conquered Bengal in 1538.
He developed the Grand Trunk Road from Kabul to Chittagong.
The Sur dynasty was replaced by the Afghan Karranis in 1564.
The decline of the Bengal Sultanate increased the power of the aristocracy, giving rise to the Baro-Bhuyan landlords.
They put up stiff resistance to the expansion of the Mughals, the Ahom kingdom and the Koch dynasty.
The Mughal Empire controlled Bengal at the end of the 16th century.
Dhaka was renamed as Jahangir Nagar and became an important Mughal administrative centre.
The Mughals promoted agrarian reform.
The decline of Mughal power in the 18th-century led to the formation of the Principality of Bengal .
Bengal was probably the wealthiest part of the subcontinent until the 18th century.
British rule began with Robert Clive 's victory at the Battle of Plassey in 1757The British East India Company gained control of Bengal after defeating its last independent Nawab at the Battle of Plassey in 1757.
Company rule saw the formation of the Bengal Presidency .
The company instituted the Permanent Settlement in 1793.
At its peak, the presidency's jurisdiction included large parts of North India, Burma and the Malacca Straits.
The 1937 elections ushered the first democratically elected government in the region.
A. K. Fazlul Huq of the Krishak Praja Party became the first elected Premier of British Bengal .
The Lahore Resolution was adopted in 1942.
It called for the creation of independent states in eastern and northwestern British India.
The Bengali Language Movement catalysed the assertion of Bengali national identity in East Bengal and later East Pakistan.
In 1950, land reform was accomplished in East Bengal with the abolishment of the feudal zamindari system.

The Surrender of Pakistan took place on 16 December 1971 at the Ramna Race Course in Dhaka, marking the liberation of Bangladesh.
The exile government formally took oath at Meherpur, in the Kustia district of East Pakistan, on 17 April 1971, with Tajuddin Ahmad as the first Prime Minister and Syed Nazrul Islam as the Acting President.
The Bangladesh Liberation War lasted for nine months.
A resistance force known as the Mukti Bahini was formed from the Bangladesh Forces  in alliance with civilian fighters such as the Kader Bahini and the Hemayet Bahini .
By winter, Bangladesh-India Allied Forces defeated the Pakistan Army, culminating in its surrender and the Liberation of Dhaka on 16 December 1971.
A nationwide famine occurred during 1973 and 1974,  Vice President Khandaker Mushtaq Ahmed was sworn in as President with most of Mujib's cabinet intact.
Using the book creator After the book creator has been enabled, the box as seen below is shown above each wiki page.
Add this page to your book Adds the currently viewed article  to your book.
On that page, you can change the order of the articles in your book and structure them using chapters.
This tool allows to create books quickly.
This will disable the Book creator and delete your book .
Click on this link, and the linked article will be added to your book.
The Add this page to your book link will have changed into Add this category to your book.
Click on this new link, and all the articles in that category will be added to your book.
Relevant categories may be found at the very bottom of Wikipedia articles.
Categories can also be added by hovering category links.
Pollard, Pollard's struggle has ended.
Sathish charged and heaved, trying to hit the ball far too hard without getting anywhere near it.
He then turned to playing cricket for club side Hawthorn-Waverley and later Fitzroy Doncaster .
He has ability to bowl more than 150km/hr speed.
Nannes took three wickets in the innings and when it came Victoria's time to bat he was the last wicket to fall in the match.
In February 2010 Dirk Nannes retired from first class cricket.
Having been able to play just one game in the longer format this season due to injury, this decision will allow me to concentrate on 50 over and Twenty20 cricket and extend my career with Victoria and Australia
The team kept Glenn McGrath on the benches to play him.
In 2010, Nannes played for Nottinghamshire in the revamped domestic T20 tournament in England.
On 12 June 2012 it was announced Chennai Super Kings signed Dirk Nannes from Royal Challengers Banglore.
On 26 April 2014, Nannes signed for English county Somerset for their entire T20 season.
A one-day international debut followed that same month where Nannes picked up 1/20 against Scotland .
According to Forbes magazine, Chennai is one of the fastest growing cities in the world and is rated in the "Forbes-Top 10 Fastest Growing Cities in the World".
Workshops of the Madras Automobiles Ltd., 1914The city is base to around 30 percent of India's automobile industry and 40 percent of auto components industry.
A study conducted by the National Housing Bank on the residential price index of Indian cities showed that Chennai experienced the highest growth after the 2008–2012 global financial crisis .
The 3,175-km-long, 8-fiber-paired i2i has the world's largest design capacity of 8.4 terabits per second.
G Mobile internet connections are provided by all the operators and 4G, 3G mobile broadband are provided by few operators in the city.
The peak evening demand of the city is 1,500 MW which is about 50 percent of the state's peak evening demand of 3,000 megawatt.
This includes 37 percent consumption by the industrial sector, 30 percent by the domestic sector, 18 percent by the agricultural sector, and 11.5 percent by the commercial sector.
The peak power consumption is for four months between May and August, with the city consuming the highest during June because it is when the summer peaks.
On 20 June 2013, the city consumed the highest of 52,785 MU.
Hourly consumption of power in the city is about 2,000 to 3,000 MW.
Prior to the advent of modern commercial banks, the banking services in the city were offered to the public by Nattukottai Chettiars or Nagarathars, chiefly in and around the neighborhood of George Town, who offered loans as well as accepted money deposits from the public, in addition to offering loans to the agricultural laborers.
Even today, many of the banking offices are housed in heritage structures belonging to the colonial era that are chiefly clustered around Rajaji road in George Town.
Main article: Healthcare in Chennai Chennai has world-class medical facilities, including both government-run and private hospitals.
The National Institute of Siddha is one of the seven apex national-level educational institutions that promote excellence in Indian system of medicine and Ayurveda .
The city generates 4,500 tonnes of garbage every day of which 429 tonnes are plastic waste.
PS: While we are it why not knock out AB de Villiers and Virat Kohli cheaply?
They got all that.
So what they do on the day of the big finale?
It was the ease with which the runs flowed and the calm manner in which they were accumulated by the Chennai openers that caught the eye.
There were several big shots but nearly all of them were in conventional zones.
There was just one bad shot in the first 14 overs.
He then tried to slog the next ball across the line and edged it to the leg side.
For the duration of the partnership, which lasted 14.5 overs, they complemented each other with contrasting approaches.
Vijay went the other way.
He punctuated his flamboyant on-the-up hits with quieter punches for singles and twos.
They both ran between the wickets hard and fast and the scoring-rate never flagged.
Hussey pulled the next delivery, from Zaheer Khan, over the backward square-leg boundary to launch the assault.
They repeated that double-dose of sixes again.
Hussey swung the final delivery of the fifth over, bowled by Mohammad, over the midwicket boundary and Vijay lifted the next ball, from Chris Gayle, over long-on.
They started their bowling in the same way.
Ashwin just needed three deliveries to remove the chief thorn in their path.
The first two turned sharply away from Gayle before the third swerved in from round the stumps and skidded on to collect the edge from an attempted cut.
In contrast Bangalore slipped on the little things that matter on this stage.
In the Powerplay, there were three instances of fielders succumbing to adrenalin rushes and indulging in needless throws; one, from Saurabh Tiwary, even went to the boundary.
It was that kind of day.
Things just didn't go right for Bangalore and everything went according to script for Chennai.
The players of Kochi Tuskers Kerala were included in the players auction.
Pune Warriors India did not take part.
Some of its campaigns are as follows:Greenathon: An event to generate money to spread awareness on climate change and rural electrification.
There have been two successful seasons of Greenathon campaign in 2010 and 2011 resulting in donations of more than 130 million Rupees.
It is also sponsored by automaker Toyota .
The goal was to create awareness among Indians about the rapidly decreasing tiger population in India .
During the telethon, people appealed to political leaders and the masses to do whatever they could to help safeguard the Indian tiger.
The "Mission-1" of this movement was "Marks for Sports".
The goal of is to push for inclusion of sports in the school curriculum, hoping that this will make parents encourage their children to take up sports.
Cases and Controversies Allegation of corruption and criminal conspiracy On 20 January 1998 Central Bureau of Investigation filed cases against New Delhi Television  was put in 'A' category instead of 'special A' category.
The Central Bureau of Investigation has announced that they have 5,851 recordings of phone conversations by Radia, some of which outline Radia's attempts to broker deals in relation to the 2G spectrum sale.
She always denied her role in this episode with stating her role as simply error of judgment.
Most of the funding for the project came after an open auction of the stadium's title was held.
A sum of Rs. 43,00,00,000 was paid in advance and the stadium was named as Visakha International Cricket Stadium in 2004.
However, Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy the former Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh decided to change the name of the stadium to Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium in memory of the former Prime Minister of India Rajiv Gandhi .
Flood lights are also mounted on Six towers to illuminate the stadium during day-night matches, Flood lights were commissioned in April 2007.
David Warner is the captain of the team.
Tom Moody is the head coach and Simon Helmot is the assistant coach of the team.
It also turned the fortunes of Sunrisers Hyderabad with almost all wins at home.
It is the 101st venue for test matches in world cricket.
Controversies arose after the conclusion of the tournament, when teams reported to have not received their tournament prize money, which was due to be paid by the end of January 2011.
The participation fees have also yet to be paid.
This tournament had two teams less compared to the previous edition due to the absence of English county teams because the tournament dates clashed with the end of England's domestic season.
The format of the tournament was modified to accommodate this.
Apart from England, Pakistan is the only other top-eight Test-playing nation not to be represented in the tournament.
The auction resulted in none of them being bought for the league.
Due to Yuvraj's unavailability for the entire season, Ganguly was made the captain of the franchise.
Midway through the season, Ganguly was sacked as captain and was dropped from the team due to lack of results, but was retained as mentor.
However, this decision was later reversed and he returned to the team as captain.
For the home match against Royal Challengers Bangalore, Ganguly rested himself, with Steve Smith taking up the captaincy, but still the team lost by 35 runs.
For the 2013 season, Pune Warriors India retained Steve Smith, Tamim Iqbal, Marlon Samuels and Luke Wright but released Clarke, James Hopes, Callum Ferguson, Alfonso Thomas, Murali Kartik and Jesse Ryder.
The only matches the team managed to win were against Rajasthan Royals .
Like the previous seasons, the main cause for the team's poor performance was their constant squandering of winning chances and the lack of balance in the side, with more than 30 players being used during the season.
Following this match, Taylor was also sacked as captain due to his poor form, in spite of the team winning in Chennai, and was replaced by Finch, who captained the Warriors for the rest of the season.
Only from the 2012 season onwards did the team actually begin to play their home matches in Pune at the Subrata Roy Sahara Stadium, named after the Chairman of Sahara India Pariwar.
Team name and logo The Pune franchise named the team Pune Warriors India in honour of the Maratha Empire which once ruled from the city.
The team logo is still same in.
Exide In their inaugural season, the team's jersey was black with silver stripes on the sides.
The jersey also incorporated the attacking warrior logo in the top-left corner of the shirt.
From the 2012 season onwards, the colour of the jersey was changed to turquoise blue with silver stripes on the sides and the Indian tricolour on the back collar and sleeve edges of the shirt.
The attacking warrior logo was again on the top-left corner of the shirt.
Adidas was the kit manufacturer for the 2011 season, but for the final two seasons, T. K. Sportswear was the kit manufacturer.
Indian online fashion clothing brand American Swan was the official lifestyle clothing partner for the team.
Then the team cricketers as well as the residents performed the Sahara salute .
In the words of Subrata Roy-With Pune Warriors India's Cheer Queens, we intend to showcase and bring recognition to the rich and diverse culture of India at an international platform.
Botha, another reverse sweep expert perishes to the reverse sweep today.
Rahul Sharma fires this in very full on middle, Botha tries to take it on the full and reverse slap it through third man, but the ball thuds into his boot before the bat can come down.
Plumb and given by Taufel.
I reckon even Tarapore would have given this out.
Menaria, is it too late in the game?
Rahul Sharma has got Menaria to mis-hit one of his big swings into the leg side.
This was in the slot, Menaria lined him up and looked to go downtown, but lofted it towards wide long-on.
Alfonso runs across from long-on and takes it.
Valthaty was trained in Dilip Vengsarkar academy in Mumbai.
He was then recommended by Vengsarkar to Andhra Cricket Association  president Mr. Chamundeswarnath.
Irfan Pathan and Parthiv Patel where an injury to his eye in the game against Bangladesh halted his development.
Traditional Indian dress varies in colour and style across regions and depends on various factors, including climate and faith.
Popular styles of dress include draped garments such as the sari for women and the dhoti or lungi for men.
The improved results garnered by the Indian Davis Cup team and other Indian tennis players in the early 2010s have made tennis increasingly popular in the country.
Field hockey in India is administered by Hockey India .
The Indian national hockey team won the 1975 Hockey World Cup and have, as of 2012, taken eight gold, one silver, and two bronze Olympic medals, making it the sport's most successful team in the Olympics.
The first Indian Grand Prix featured in late 2011 but has been discontinued from the F1 season calendar since 2014.
India has traditionally been the dominant country at the South Asian Games .
An example of this dominance is the basketball competition where Team India won three out of four tournaments to date.
The Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna and the Arjuna Award are the highest forms of government recognition for athletic achievement; the Dronacharya Award is awarded for excellence in coaching.
Main article: Etymology of London The name London may derive from the River Thames The etymology of London is uncertain.
Two recent discoveries indicate probable very early settlements near the Thames in the London area.
In 1300, the City was still confined within the Roman walls .
Although there is evidence of scattered Brythonic settlements in the area, the first major settlement was founded by the Romans after the invasion of 43 AD.
The next, heavily planned, incarnation of Londinium prospered, and it superseded Colchester as the capital of the Roman province of Britannia in 100.
The Vikings established Danelaw over much of the eastern and northern part of England with its boundary roughly stretching from London to Chester .
Danelaw lasted in many parts of England for centuries to come.
The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle recorded that London was "refounded" by Alfred the Great in 886.
London then grew slowly until about 950, after which activity increased dramatically.
By the 11th century, London was beyond all comparison the largest town in England.
Winchester had previously been the capital of Anglo-Saxon England, but from this time on, London became the main forum for foreign traders and the base for defence in time of war.
During the 12th century, the institutions of central government, which had hitherto accompanied the royal English court as it moved around the country, grew in size and sophistication and became increasingly fixed in one place.
In most cases this was Westminster, although the royal treasury, having been moved from Winchester, came to rest in the Tower.
In 1100, its population was around 18,000; by 1300 it had grown to nearly 100,000.
The Great Fire of London destroyed many parts of the city in 1666.
Map of London in 1593.
There is only one bridge across the Thames, but parts of Southwark on the south bank of the river have been developed.
By the end of the Tudor period in 1603, London was still very compact.
The Great Fire of London broke out in 1666 in Pudding Lane in the city and quickly swept through the wooden buildings.
In 1708 Christopher Wren 's masterpiece, St Paul's Cathedral was completed.
In the east, the Port of London expanded downstream.
According to Samuel Johnson:You find no man, at all intellectual, who is willing to leave London.
Late modern and contemporary British volunteer recruits in London, August 1914A bombed-out London street during the Blitz of the Second World War London was the world's largest city from about 1831 to 1925 .
Rising traffic congestion led to the creation of the world's first local urban rail network.
The Metropolitan Board of Works oversaw infrastructure expansion in the capital and some of the surrounding counties; it was abolished in 1889 when the London County Council was created out of those areas of the counties surrounding the capital.
In 1951, the Festival of Britain was held on the South Bank .
The role of trendsetter was revived during the punk era.
Racial inequality was highlighted by the 1981 Brixton riot .
Greater London's population declined steadily in the decades after the Second World War, from an estimated peak of 8.6 million in 1939 to around 6.8 million in the 1980s.
The Thames Barrier was completed in the 1980s to protect London against tidal surges from the North Sea .
In 2000, London-wide government was restored, with the creation of the Greater London Authority .
Player of the match: James Anderson India won the toss and elected to bat.
This category is for articles structured as biographical entries for living individuals.
Purpose: Because living persons may suffer personal harm from inappropriate information, we should watch their articles carefully.
Recent changes to these articles are listed on Special:RecentChangesLinked/Category:Living people .
Entries are generally sorted by family name .
Errata: Any individual born before 1900 whose living status remains undetermined, should have this category replaced with Category:Year of death missing .
Wikisource has original text related to this article:Domestic and first-class career Ishant plays for Delhi in domestic cricket and has taken 68 wickets in 14  first-class games, Ishant toured England with the India Under-19s in 2006 and Pakistan in 2006–07.
He played three youth tests and six youth One Day Internationals for India.
This was the highest amount paid for any bowler in tournament.
Later on, he was called for the tour of England in July–August 2007.
Sharma was left out in the Boxing Day Test at Melbourne during the Border–Gavaskar Trophy as India retained their main fast bowlers, Zaheer Khan and RP Singh.
He bowled reasonably in the match, however without much luck.
Although he had little success, the management retained him for the third Test match at Perth.
On the fourth day of the match he bowled an exceptional spell to Australian captain Ricky Ponting that resulted in his wicket and helped India claim victory.
He ended the match with figures of 4/38 and named Man of the Match.
He was noted for achieving reverse swing on balls sometimes as young as eight overs, and along with senior opening bowler Zaheer Khan, troubled the touring Australians.
However, in 2009, Ishant's form slumped, and he was dropped for the second Test against Sri Lanka, replaced by Sreesanth .
Ishant provided Laxman with support during an 81-run partnership in which he contributed 31 valuable runs.
The Awami League lost again to the Bangladesh Nationalist Party in 2001.
At the last minute in early January, the Awami League withdrew from the election scheduled for later that month.
The country had suffered for decades from extensive corruption,  disorder, and political violence.
The caretaker government worked to root out corruption from all levels of government.
It arrested on corruption charges more than 160 people, including politicians, civil servants, and businessmen, among whom were both major party leaders, some of their senior staff, and two sons of Khaleda Zia.
Most of the country is dominated by the fertile Ganges-Brahmaputra delta .
The northwest and central parts of the country are formed by the Madhupur and the Barind plateaus.
The northeast and southeast are home to evergreen hill ranges.
The Ganges delta is formed by the confluence of the Ganges  and later joins the Meghna, finally flowing into the Bay of Bengal .
The alluvial soil deposited by the rivers when they overflow their banks has created some of the most fertile plains in the world.
The country is predominated by rich fertile flat land.
Most parts of Bangladesh are less than 12 m .

The country's haor wetlands are of significant importance to global environmental science.
In southeastern Bangladesh, experiments have been done since the 1960s to 'build with nature'.
With Dutch funding, the Bangladeshi government began promoting the development of this new land in the late 1970s.
In September 1998, Bangladesh saw the most severe flooding in modern world history.
As the Brahmaputra, the Ganges and Meghna spilt over and swallowed 300,000 houses, 9,700 km  of roads damaged or destroyed.
Two-thirds of the country was underwater.
There were several reasons for the severity of the flooding.
Firstly, there were unusually high monsoon rains.
Secondly, the Himalayas shed off an equally unusually high amount of melt water that year.
Thirdly, trees that usually would have intercepted rain water had been cut down for firewood or to make space for animals.
Bangladesh-Burma maritime border off the coast of St. Martin's Island and coral reef Bangladesh is now widely recognised to be one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change .
Natural hazards that come from increased rainfall, rising sea levels, and tropical cyclones are expected to increase as climate changes, each seriously affecting agriculture, water and food security, human health and shelter.
It would be 30 years before another settlement was attempted.
Batman then returned to Launceston in Tasmania.
Fawkner was forced to disembark at Georgetown, Tasmania, because of outstanding debts.
The remainder of the party continued and arrived at the mouth of the Yarra River on 15 August 1835.
Between 1836 and 1842, Victorian Aboriginal groups were largely dispossessed of their land.
"Canvas Town", South Melbourne in the 1850s depicting temporary accommodation for the thousands who poured into Melbourne each week during the gold rush.
Within months, the city's population had increased by nearly three-quarters, from 25,000 to 40,000 inhabitants.
Additionally, Melbourne along with the Victorian regional cities of Ballarat and Geelong became the wealthiest cities in the world during the Gold Rush era.
Chinese migrants founded the Melbourne Chinatown in 1851, which remains the longest continuous Chinese settlement in the Western World.
These areas were rapidly filled from the mid 1850s by the ubiquitous terrace house, as well as detached houses and some grand mansions in large grounds, while some of the major roads developed as shopping streets.
Members of the Melbourne Football Club codified Australian football in 1859, and Yarra rowing clubs and "regattas" became popular about the same time.
In 1861 the Melbourne Cup was first run.
In 1864 Melbourne acquired its first public monument—the Burke and Wills statue.
An extensive radial railway network centred on Melbourne and spreading out across the suburbs and into the countryside was established from the late 1850s.
The central city filled up with shops and offices, workshops, and warehouses.
Large banks and hotels faced the main streets, with fine townhouses in the east end of Collins Street, contrasting with tiny cottages down laneways within the blocks.
During the boom, Melbourne had reputedly become the richest city in the world, The decade began with the Melbourne International Exhibition in 1880, held in the large purpose-built Exhibition Building .
In 1885 the first line of the Melbourne cable tramway system was built, becoming one of the worlds most extensive systems by 1890.
The Governor-General of Australia resided at Government House in Melbourne until 1930 and many major national institutions remained in Melbourne well into the twentieth century.
Suburban expansion then intensified, serviced by new indoor malls beginning with Chadstone Shopping Centre .
Many of the larger suburban mansions from the boom era were also either demolished or subdivided.
Australia's financial and mining booms between 1969 and 1970 resulted in establishment of the headquarters of many major companies  in the city.
Nauru 's then booming economy resulted in several ambitious investments in Melbourne, such as Nauru House .
Since the mid-1990s, Melbourne has maintained significant population and employment growth.
There has been substantial international investment in the city's industries and property market.
These factors have led to population growth and further suburban expansion through the 2000s.
A panoramic view of the Melbourne Docklands and the city skyline from Waterfront City looking across Victoria Harbour .
From 2006, the growth of the city extended into "green wedges" and beyond the city's urban growth boundary .
Main article: Geography of Melbourne Map of Melbourne and Geelong urban areas Melbourne is located in the south-eastern part of mainland Australia, within the state of Victoria .
Geologically, it is built on the confluence of Quaternary lava flows to the west, Silurian mudstones to the east, and Holocene sand accumulation to the southeast along Port Phillip .
The southeastern suburbs are situated on the Selwyn fault which transects Mount Martha and Cranbourne .
Melbourne extends along the Yarra River towards the Yarra Valley and the Dandenong Ranges to the east.
The Little River, and the township of the same name, marks the border between Melbourne and neighbouring Geelong city.
Pakistani Shoaib Akhtar holds the world record for delivering the fastest ball .
In the early days of cricket, underarm bowling was the only method employed.
Many theories exist about the origins of cricket.
In 1706 William Goldwyn published the first description of the game.
They stated, "the principals shall choose from amongst the gentlemen present two umpires who shall absolutely decide all disputes.
The stumps must be 22 inches high and the bail across them six inches.
There were no limits on the shape or size of the bat.
The world's first cricket club was formed in Hambledon in the 1760s and the Marylebone Cricket Club  was founded in 1787.
During the 1760s and 1770s it became common to pitch the ball through the air, rather than roll it along the ground.
This innovation gave bowlers the weapons of length, deception through the air, plus increased pace.
It also opened new possibilities for spin and swerve.
In response, batters had to master timing and shot selection.
One immediate consequence was the replacement of the curving bat with the straight one.
All of this raised the premium on skill and lessened the influence of rough ground and brute force.
It was in the 1770s that the modern game began to take shape.
In 1774, the first leg before law was published.
The desire for standardisation reflected the massive increase in the popularity of cricket during the 18th century.
Between 1730 and 1740, 150 cricket matches were recorded in the papers of the time.
Between 1750 and 1760, this figure rose to 230, and between 1770 and 1790 over 500.
Wide deliveries were outlawed in 1811.
The circumference of the ball was specified for the first time in 1838 .
Pads, made of cork, became available for the first time in 1841, and these were further developed following the invention of vulcanised rubber, which was also used to introduce protective gloves in 1848.
The biggest change, however, was in how the ball was delivered by the bowler.
At the start of the century, all bowlers were still delivering the ball under-arm.

Underarm bowling hitherto had almost disappeared from the game.
Originally, this definition said that the elbow joint must not straighten out during the bowling action.
Bowlers generally hold their elbows fully extended and rotate the arm vertically about the shoulder joint to impart velocity to the ball, releasing it near the top of the arc.
Biomechanical studies that showed that almost all bowlers extend their elbows somewhat throughout the bowling action, because the stress of swinging the arm around hyperextends the elbow joint.
A guideline was introduced to allow extensions or hyperextensions of angles up to 15 degrees before deeming the ball illegally thrown.
Bowling actions are typically divided into side on and front on actions.
In the side on action, the back foot lands parallel to the bowling crease and the bowler aims at the wicket by looking over his front shoulder.
In the front on action, the back foot lands pointing down the pitch and the bowler aims at the wicket by looking inside the line of his front arm.
The primary means of achieving this is by dismissing the batting side by getting all ten of the opposition wickets as quickly as possible.
A secondary objective will be to keep the batting side's run rate as low as possible.
Conversely, slowing the scoring rate can put additional pressure on the batsmen and force them into taking extra risks, which will often lead to wickets.
Depending upon the format of the match, these two strategies will be given different weights.
In an unlimited, timed or declaration match, the main aim of the bowling attack will be to take wickets, so attacking bowling and fielding strategies will be used.
The simultaneous twin objectives of bowling are to take wickets and prevent run scoring opportunities.
A good length delivery is one in which the ball has had sufficient time to move far enough off the pitch to beat the bat but the batsman has not had time to react to the movement and adjust his shot.
The faster the bowler and the greater the movement he is able to generate, the larger the area of the pitch that can be designated an effective "good" length.
Bowling at the stumps is an attacking tactic with the intention of dismissing the batsman bowled or lbw .
Bowling outside off stump is known as the corridor of uncertainty.
When done well, this line may confuse the batsman into whether to defend the ball or leave it, and may tempt him to play away from his body with his head not in line with the ball.
The main aim of this tactic is to dismiss the batman caught by the wicketkeeper or in the slips .
Other bowling variations, such as bowling wide of off stump or bowling at leg stump are generally seen as negative and defensive tactics.
He scored 120 off 232 balls with 17 boundaries as Railways cricket team won by innings and 88 runs.
He didn't get to bat on that day.
He featured for Royal Challengers Bangalore in 2009.
His performance against Kings XI Punjab early on in the tournament was ample proof of his potential, as he beat the Kings XI batsmen with his spin.
In 2015, he was retained by the Sunrisers Hyderabad and he plays as the lead spin bowler for the team.
This page is for uploading images and other media files to Wikipedia.
Click here to start the Upload Wizard You are not currently logged in.
Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account.
Please log in and then try again.
Your account has not become confirmed yet.
Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it.
This name must be unique across the whole of Wikipedia, so please make it informative and easy to recognize.
It may also include spaces, commas and most other punctuation marks.
Please also note that file names are case sensitive .
Your filename has been modified to avoid these.
Please check if it is okay now.
The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic.
A file of this name already exists on Commons!If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible.
Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used.
This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases.
Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing.
If you want to replace the existing file with an uncontroversial, improved version of the same work, please go to Commons and upload it there, not here on the English Wikipedia's local wiki.
A file of this name already exists.
If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file.
Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used.
The old description page, including the source and copyright information, will still be correct for the new version and can remain the same.
This will be stored and displayed as part of the file description page.
It is important that other editors be able to understand what this file is about.
What does this file show?
Step 3: Provide source and copyright information It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully.
I can demonstrate that it is legally okay for anybody to use, in Wikipedia and elsewhere, for any purpose.
Wikipedia loves free files.
However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the Wikimedia Commons .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects.
Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here.
Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too.
However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form.
You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here.
This file is entirely my own work.
I am the copyright holder.
Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that.
The copyright belongs to the original creator, not to you.


Internet.
Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work" will be blocked from editing.
Please describe how and when you created this item.
This file was given to me by its owner.
The copyright owner of this file has given it to me for uploading on Wikipedia.
Please describe who owns this work and how you got it from them.
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Comment It's easy to forget Ishant Sharma is just 22. He's had so many ups and downs already.
He's experienced not just dips in form but long, barren stretches of gloom.
On Thursday, he grabbed his 100th Test wicket in his 32nd Test, statistics that surprised some, including himself.
Ricky Ponting in Perth is well known.
That was just the beginning of the nightmare.
The release gradually turned awry.
The wrist that was so firmly behind the seam was finding its way into awkward positions.
While at his best, his lithe fingers whipped the ball on to the deck.
In his decline, he merely floated the ball across.
The left shoulder fell away alarmingly.
The head was no longer still.
" Ishant said.
"I have age on my side.
I just had to work on my bowling and my fitness.
Us time sabse jyaada difficulty tha ki koi kuch nahi poochta hai; aap kahan pey ho, kya kar rahe ho.
My family's support was really helpful at the time."Only
"I'd like to thank Zaheer for  fitness.

And be fit."Ishant
His duel with Ramnaresh Sarwan offered sufficient proof.
Ishant kept pushing Sarwan back with his short-of-length deliveries before getting one to pitch fuller and cut in and trap him in front.
I think more," he said.
"I have plans against each batsman; where and what you should bowl at different batsmen.
I don't know what was going wrong at that time.
"You have to be clever when you are bowling in Powerplays and in the slog overs.
I wasn't that clever before.
"I am enjoying the responsibility.
Ishant is back to his best, but he said he is readier than ever, mentally and physically.
I learnt how to recover from tiredness.
The approach is the motion of the bowler prior to bowling the ball.
It is also known as the run-up.
Moreover, inconsistency is likely to lead to bowling no-balls.
Spin bowlers, on the other hand, tend to have more varied approaches.
Other recommended elements of the approach are:Starting with shorter strides then lengthening to cruise in to the bound.
Leaning slightly forward, running on the balls of the feet.
Running with the hands pumping, tucked into the side.
Some bowlers choose to sacrifice this in order to cover the ball with the non-bowling hand in order to disguise the grip.
Long enough to hit the desired cruise speed and arrive balanced at the bound.
Some bowlers, especially chest on bowlers tend to run through the crease.
This adds the speed of the approach to the speed at which the ball is released.
In contrast, side on bowlers tend to be more similar to javelin throwers.
Hence side on bowlers tend to have slower approaches.
A high bound can lead to the knee on the back foot collapsing and so lose momentum.
Delivery stride is the stride during which the delivery swing is made, whether the ball is released or not.
It starts when the bowler’s back foot lands for that stride and ends when the front foot lands in the same stride.
Back foot contact is position of the bowler at the instant when the back foot lands on the ground just prior to delivering the ball.
An alternative name for back foot contact is coil.
To avoid back injury it is important that the hips and shoulders are aligned at back foot contact.
This can be done in any of the following positions:Side on: the back foot is parallel to the bowling crease causing the hips to be side on.
The non bowling arm is positioned in front of head so causing the shoulders to align with the hips.
Chest on: the back foot points straight down the track towards the target, aligning the hips parallel to the bowling crease.
The non bowling arm is positioned to the side of the head.
In July and August the team played four Tests in England .
India won the series 2–1.
Ishant Sharma plays for Sunrisers Hyderabad in Indian Premier League.
Upon finding the structure, the British settlers began to call what is now the Bridgetown area Indian Bridge.
Bridgetown is the only city outside the present United States that George Washington visited.
Two of Washington's ancestors, Jonathon and Gerrard Hawtaine, were early planters on the island.
Their grandmother was Mary Washington of Sulgrave, Northamptonshire, England.
Reports of dishonest behaviour about this Governor led to his arrest and rendition to England in 1639.
The boundaries were not redefined until 1822.
Due to this the Saint Michael's Parish Church became raised to the status of Cathedral, in so doing the elevation meant that thereafter Bridgetown would be conferred with city status .
In 1842, Royal Letters Patent under which Barbados, Trinidad, Tobago, Grenada, Saint Vincent, and Saint Lucia were split into separate diocese decreed that henceforth the Town of Bridgetown should be called the City of Bridgetown.
From 1800 until 1885, Bridgetown served as the main seat of Government for the former British colonies of the Windward Islands .
During this period, the resident Governor of Barbados also served McCullum 's 158* and Murali Vijay 's 127.
Marsh, Irfan takes out Shaun.
It landed back of length and moved away from the off stump.
Morne ran in from third man to collect it.
It was the full delivery but Paul was so frozen on the back foot.
The ball curved in the air, landed full around off and darted back in.
Paul was in panic mode by now; he  crouched and tried to stab it.
The ball curved in, went through the bat and pad gap and took out the off stump 123/318.4 to Mandeep Singh, Clatter!
The Test was notable for Younis Ahmed 's return to the Test fray after an absence of over 17 years and also for Sunil Gavaskar 's dismissal to the first ball of the Test match, for the third time in an otherwise illustrious career.
Fresh from their World Cup triumph, the Indians comfortably won by four wickets, sporting the same XI that won the World Cup final.
The ground has also hosted two World Cup matches in 1987 and 1996 respectively, the West Indians losing to England in the former and beating Australia in the latter.
The Page playoff system was used at the Australian Rugby League Championship 1954-1972.
The system is now used by the International Softball Federation in world championship since 1990 and the Olympic Games 1996-2008.
The format was used in the Indian Premier League cricket tournament since 2011.
The format has also been used in some much lower-key, internet gaming events, such as chess The system requires teams to be ranked in some way, as the top two teams have an advantage over the bottom two.
A standard round-robin tournament is used, in which all teams play each other once.
The system was invented in Australia in the early 1930s and adopted soon after by the Victorian Football League .
The top four teams advance to the playoffs, which are played over three rounds with one team being eliminated in each round.
The format progresses as follows:In Game 1, the third- and fourth-placed teams play against each other.
The loser is eliminated.
In Game 2, the first- and second-placed teams play against each other.
The winner qualifies directly for the final.
Previously, the bronze would have automatically been awarded to the team which lost Game 3.
This was also introduced at the national level at the 2011 Scotties Tournament of Hearts and the 2011 Tim Hortons Brier .
To distinguish between the two Semi-Finals, which are different in nature, the match between 3rd and 4th is known either as the First Semi-Final or the Minor Semi-Final; and the match between 1st and 2nd is known either as the Second Semi-Final or the Major Semi-Final.
After the Government of Barbados officially exited from the Windward Island union in 1885, the seat was moved from Bridgetown to St. George's on the neighbouring island of Grenada .
It was proposed that the island's House of Assembly should seek to Incorporate the city instead of utilising Royal Charter .
It was not until 1958 when the Local Government Act was passed in Barbados.
Within the act, called for separate administration for the city.
The armorial bearings for the City of Bridgetown were designed by the late Neville Connell, the then director of the Barbados Museum and Historical Society along with H.W. Ince the Honorary Secretary of the Society.
Local government in Barbados was established but not for long.
In April 1967, the system of Local Government Councils was dissolved and replaced by an Interim Commissioner for Local Government.
The Corporation of Bridgetown thus ceased to exist, and its records and paraphernalia were deposited in both the Government Department of Archives and Barbados Museum and Historical Society.
Today, Bridgetown and surrounding constituencies are administered by members of Barbadian parliament.
Geography and climate Aerial view of Bridgetown The city of Bridgetown, and the wider Greater Bridgetown area occupy most of the parish of Saint Michael, an area which covers around 39 km² .
At the heart of Bridgetown is the Careenage and Constitution River .
This body of water provides the city with direct access from medium-sized yachts or small craft boats.
Although moderately shallow, the Careenage slices Bridgetown into two parts.
During the rainy season the Constitution River flows into the Careenage area and acts as an outflow for water from the islands interior storm drainage network.
While fairly hot, Bridgetown is cooled somewhat by the trade winds that affect weather in Barbados in general.
Its wet season is from June through January, while the dry season covers the remaining months.
Windsor Park's peak capacity in this format was 60,000.
In the late 1990s, the Kop terrace was demolished and replaced with the 5000-seater Kop Stand.
The Kop Stand was known as the Alex Russell Stand from 2004-2008 in honour of Linfield's former goalkeeper and coach and one-time Northern Ireland international, but reverted to being named 'The Kop Stand' following this.
Owing to the increasingly poor condition of Windsor Park,  The plans for the multi-purpose stadium at the Maze site was strongly protested by essentially all the Northern Ireland match-going supporters.
In 2012, details of the stadium's redevelopment were released.
In February 2013, planning permission for the redevelopment was granted, with the estimated cost of the project around £29.2 million, of which £25.2 million would come from government funding.
It was planned for the work to begin in September 2013.
The details of the settlement were not forthcoming, but Crusaders said that it had the "potential to benefit the entirety of the football family".
You are not logged in.
Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits.
Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted.
Encyclopedic content must be verifiable .
Ishant had already started taking big strides in South Africa,

To identify what is wrong is only 10% of the problem; fixing it takes time.

Munaf's injury here," Simons said.
See also: Kingdom of Cochin Kochi was the centre of Indian spice trade for many centuries, and was known to the Yavanas  as well as Jews, Syrians, Arabs, and Chinese since ancient times .
According to many historians, the precursor state to Kingdom of Kochi came into existence in early 12th century, after the fall of the Chera Kingdom .
The reign of the Kingdom was hereditary, and the family that ruled over the region was known as the Perumpadappu rulers in the local vernacular.
The mainland Kochi remained the capital of the princely state since the 18th century.
The King of Kochi only had authority over the region encompassing the present city of Kochi and adjoining areas.
Portuguese navigator, Pedro Álvares Cabral founded the first European settlement in India at Kochi in 1500.
The Portuguese rule was followed by that of the Dutch, who had allied with the Zamorin of Calicut to conquer Kochi.
The hereditary Prime Ministership of Kochi held by the Paliath Achans ended during this period.
However, there are evidences of English habitation in the region even before the signing of the treaty.
In 1925, Kochi legislative assembly was constituted due to public pressure on the state.
Towards the early 20th century, trade at the port had increased substantially, and the need to develop the port was greatly felt.
The city's economic growth gathered momentum after economic reforms in India introduced by the central government in the early-1990s.
Since 2000, the service sector has energized the city's economy.
Over the years, Kochi has witnessed rapid commercialisation, and has today grown into the commercial hub of Kerala.
An ecologically sensitive area, the Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary is located in the central part of the city.
Kochi's water needs are entirely dependent on ground water and the two rivers flowing through the district viz., Periyar and Muvattupuzha .
Periyar serves the entire northern part of the city whereas Muvattupuzha river under the JnNurm project covers the West Kochi, East Kochi and parts of Cherthala taluk under the Japan Water Project Scheme.
Both Trinidad and Tobago were originally settled by Amerindians of South American origin.
Trinidad was first settled by pre-agricultural Archaic people at least 7,000 years ago, making it the earliest-settled part of the Caribbean.
Ceramic-using agriculturalists settled Trinidad around 250 BC, and then moved further up the Lesser Antillean chain .
At the time of European contact, Trinidad was occupied by various Arawakan -speaking groups including the Nepoya and Suppoya, and Cariban -speaking groups such as the Yao, while Tobago was occupied by the Island Caribs and Galibi .
The Chaconia  is the national flower of Trinidad and Tobago.
Christopher Columbus encountered the island of Trinidad on 31 July 1498.
Cacique Wannawanare  was established by Antonio de Berrío on this land.
Amerindians tied to the Church's encomienda at the mission at Arena revolted, killing the priests and desecrating the church.
They then ambushed the governor and his party, who were on their way to visit the church.
Among those killed in the governor's party was Fr.
In the 1700s, Trinidad belonged as an island province to the Viceroyalty of New Spain together with Central America, present-day Mexico and Southwestern United States.
Spanish colonisation in Trinidad remained tenuous.
This Cédula de Población was more generous than the first of 1776, and granted free lands to Roman Catholic foreign settlers and their slaves in Trinidad willing to swear allegiance to the Spanish king.
Trinidad's population jumped to over 15,000 by the end of 1789, from just under 1,400 in 1777.
By 1797 the population of Port of Spain had increased from under 3,000 to 10,422 in five years, an